

[ Phenylephrine pronounced as (fen il ef' rin)  Phenylephrine is used to relieve nasal discomfort caused by colds, allergies, and hay fever. It is also used to relieve sinus congestion and pressure. Phenylephrine will relieve symptoms but will not treat the cause of the symptoms or speed recovery. Phenylephrine is in a class of medications called nasal decongestants. It works by reducing swelling of the blood vessels in the nasal passages. How should this medicine be used? Phenylephrine comes as a tablet, a liquid, or a dissolving strip to take by mouth. It is usually taken every 4 hours as needed. Follow the directions on your prescription label or the package label carefully, and ask your doctor or pharmacist to explain any part you do not understand. Take phenylephrine exactly as directed. Do not take more or less of it or take it more often than prescribed by your doctor or directed on the label. Phenylephrine comes alone and in combination with other medications. Ask your doctor or pharmacist for advice on which product is best for your symptoms. Check nonprescription cough and cold product labels carefully before using two or more products at the same time. These products may contain the same active ingredient(s) and taking them together could cause you to receive an overdose. This is especially important if you will be giving cough and cold medications to a child. Nonprescription cough and cold combination products, including products that contain phenylephrine, can cause serious side effects or death in young children. Do not give these products to children younger than 4 years of age. If you give these products to children 4 to 11 years of age, use caution and follow the package directions carefully. If you are giving phenylephrine or a combination product that contains phenylephrine to a child, read the package label carefully to be sure that it is the right product for a child of that age. Do not give phenylephrine products that are made for adults to children. Before you give a phenylephrine product to a child, check the package label to find out how much medication the child should receive. Give the dose that matches the child's age on the chart. Ask the child's doctor if you don't know how much medication to give the child. If you are taking the liquid, do not use a household spoon to measure your dose. Use the measuring spoon or cup that came with the medication or use a spoon made especially for measuring medication. If your symptoms do not get better within 7 days or if you have a fever, stop taking phenylephrine and call your doctor. If you are taking the dissolving strips, place one strip on your tongue and allow it to dissolve. Other uses for this medicine This medication may be prescribed for other uses; ask your doctor or pharmacist for more information. What special precautions should I follow? Before taking phenylephrine, tell your doctor and pharmacist if you are allergic to phenylephrine, any other medications, or any of the ingredients in phenylephrine preparations. do not take phenylephrine if you are taking a monoamine oxidase (MAO) inhibitor, such as isocarboxazid (Marplan), phenelzine (Nardil), selegiline (Eldepryl, Emsam, Zelapar), and tranylcypromine (Parnate), or if you have stopped taking one of these medications within the past 2 weeks. tell your doctor and pharmacist what other prescription and nonprescription medications, vitamins, nutritional supplements, and herbal products you are taking or plan to take. tell your doctor if you have or have ever had high blood pressure, diabetes, trouble urinating because of an enlarged prostate gland, or thyroid or heart disease. tell your doctor if you are pregnant, plan to become pregnant, or are breast-feeding. If you become pregnant while taking phenylephrine, call your doctor. if you are having surgery, including dental surgery, tell the doctor or dentist that you are taking phenylephrine. if you have phenylketonuria (PKU, an inherited condition in which a special diet must be followed to prevent damage to your brain that can cause severe intellectual disability), you should know that some phenylephrine products may be sweetened with aspartame, a source of phenylalanine. What special dietary instructions should I follow? Unless your doctor tells you otherwise, continue your normal diet. What should I do if I forget a dose? This medication is usually taken as needed. If your doctor has told you to take phenylephrine regularly, take the missed dose as soon as you remember it. However, if it is almost time for the next dose, skip the missed dose and continue your regular dosing schedule. Do not take a double dose to make up for a missed one. What side effects can this medication cause? Phenylephrine may cause side effects. Some side effects can be serious. If you experience any of these symptoms, stop using phenylephrine and call your doctor: nervousness dizziness sleeplessness Phenylephrine may cause other side effects. Call your doctor if you have any unusual problems while taking this medication. If you experience a serious side effect, you or your doctor may send a report to the Food and Drug Administration's (FDA) MedWatch Adverse Event Reporting program online ( http://www.fda.gov/Safety/MedWatch ) or by phone (1-800-332-1088). What should I know about storage and disposal of this medication? Keep this medication in the container it came in, tightly closed, and out of reach of children. Store it at room temperature and away from excess heat and moisture (not in the bathroom). It is important to keep all medication out of sight and reach of children as many containers (such as weekly pill minders and those for eye drops, creams, patches, and inhalers) are not child-resistant and young children can open them easily. To protect young children from poisoning, always lock safety caps and immediately place the medication in a safe location – one that is up and away and out of their sight and reach. http://www.upandaway.org Unneeded medications should be disposed of in special ways to ensure that pets, children, and other people cannot consume them. However, you should not flush this medication down the toilet. Instead, the best way to dispose of your medication is through a medicine take-back program. Talk to your pharmacist or contact your local garbage/recycling department to learn about take-back programs in your community. See the FDA's Safe Disposal of Medicines website ( http://goo.gl/c4Rm4p ) for more information if you do not have access to a take-back program. In case of emergency/overdose In case of overdose, call the poison control helpline at 1-800-222-1222. Information is also available online at https://www.poisonhelp.org/help . If the victim has collapsed, had a seizure, has trouble breathing, or can't be awakened, immediately call emergency services at 911. What other information should I know? Ask your pharmacist any questions you have about phenylephrine. It is important for you to keep a written list of all of the prescription and nonprescription (over-the-counter) medicines you are taking, as well as any products such as vitamins, minerals, or other dietary supplements. You should bring this list with you each time you visit a doctor or if you are admitted to a hospital. It is also important information to carry with you in case of emergencies. Brand names Children's Sudafed PE Nasal Decongestant ® Lusonal ® § PediaCare Children's Decongestant ® Sudafed PE Congestion ® Suphedrin PE ®

[ Pyrethrin and Piperonyl Butoxide Topical pronounced as (pi reth' rin) (pi' per on il) To use the sharing features on this page, please enable JavaScript. Why is this medication prescribed? How should this medicine be used? Other uses for this medicine What special precautions should I follow? What special dietary instructions should I follow? What should I do if I forget a dose? What side effects can this medication cause? What should I know about storage and disposal of this medication? In case of emergency/overdose What other information should I know? Why is this medication prescribed? Pyrethrin and piperonyl butoxide shampoo is used to treat lice (small insects that attach themselves to the skin on the head, body, or pubic area ['crabs']) in adults and children 2 years of age and older. Pyrethrin and piperonyl butoxide is in a class of medications called pediculicides. It works by killing lice. How should this medicine be used? Pyrethrin and piperonyl butoxide comes as a shampoo to apply to the skin and hair. It is usually applied to the skin and hair in two or three treatments. The second treatment must be applied 7-10 days after the first one. Sometimes a third treatment may be necessary, as recommended by your doctor. Follow the directions on your prescription label or the package label carefully, and ask your doctor or pharmacist to explain any part you do not understand. Use pyrethrin and piperonyl butoxide shampoo exactly as directed. Do not use more or less of it or use it more often than directed on the package label or prescribed by your doctor. The package label gives you an estimate of how much shampoo you will need based on your hair length. Be sure to use enough shampoo to cover all of your scalp area and hair. Pyrethrin and piperonyl butoxide shampoo should only be used on the skin or hair and scalp. Avoid getting pyrethrin and piperonyl butoxide shampoo in your eyes, nose, mouth, or vagina. Do not use it on your eyebrows or eyelashes. If pyrethrin and piperonyl butoxide shampoo gets in your eyes, flush them with water right away. If your eyes are still irritated after flushing with water, call your doctor or get medical help right away. To use the shampoo, follow these steps: Shake the shampoo well right before use to mix the medication evenly. Use a towel to cover your face and eyes. Be sure to keep your eyes closed during this treatment. You may need to have an adult help you apply the shampoo. Apply pyrethrin and piperonyl butoxide shampoo to your dry hair and scalp area or skin. If you have head lice, begin to apply the shampoo behind your ears and at the back of your neck and then cover all of the hair on your head and scalp. Keep the shampoo on for 10 minutes, but no longer. You should use a timer or clock to track the time. After 10 minutes, use a small amount of warm water to form a lather and shampoo as usual. Rinse your hair and scalp or skin thoroughly with warm water. If you have head lice, dry your hair with a towel and comb out tangles. A lice comb may also be used to remove the dead lice and nits (empty egg shells) after this treatment. You may also need to have an adult help you to do this. You will need to repeat this entire process in 7-10 days to kill the lice that hatch from eggs. After using pyrethrin and piperonyl butoxide shampoo, sanitize all the clothing, underwear, pajamas, hats, sheets, pillowcases, and towels you have used recently. These items should be washed in very hot water or dry-cleaned. You should also wash combs, brushes, hairs clips and other personal care items in hot water. Ask your pharmacist or doctor for a copy of the manufacturer's information for the patient. Other uses for this medicine This medication may be prescribed for other uses; ask your doctor or pharmacist for more information. What special precautions should I follow? Before using pyrethrin and piperonyl butoxide shampoo, tell your doctor and pharmacist if you are allergic to pyrethrin, piperonyl butoxide, chrysanthemums, ragweed, any other medications, or any of the ingredients in pyrethrin and piperonyl butoxide shampoo. Ask your pharmacist for a list of the ingredients. tell your doctor and pharmacist what prescription and nonprescription medications, vitamins, nutritional supplements, and herbal products you are taking or plan to take. tell your doctor if you have or have ever had skin conditions. tell your doctor if you are pregnant, plan to become pregnant, or are breast-feeding. If you become pregnant while using pyrethrin and piperonyl butoxide shampoo, call your doctor. What special dietary instructions should I follow? Unless your doctor tells you otherwise, continue your normal diet. What should I do if I forget a dose? It is important to apply pyrethrin and piperonyl butoxide shampoo again in 7 to 10 days after the first application. If you miss the second treatment, call your doctor to discuss your treatment schedule. What side effects can this medication cause? Pyrethrin and piperonyl butoxide shampoo may cause side effects. Tell your doctor if any of these symptoms are severe or do not go away: itching of skin or scalp area redness of skin or scalp area Some side effects can be serious. If you experience any of these symptoms, call your doctor immediately: trouble breathing continued irritation of the skin or scalp area infected or pus filled areas of the skin or scalp area Pyrethrin and piperonyl butoxide shampoo may cause other side effects. Call your doctor if you have any unusual problems while using this medication. If you experience a serious side effect, you or your doctor may send a report to the Food and Drug Administration's (FDA) MedWatch Adverse Event Reporting program online ( http://www.fda.gov/Safety/MedWatch ) or by phone (1-800-332-1088). What should I know about storage and disposal of this medication? Keep this medication in the container it came in, tightly closed, and out of reach of children. Store it at room temperature and away from excess heat and moisture (not in the bathroom). Unneeded medications should be disposed of in special ways to ensure that pets, children, and other people cannot consume them. However, you should not flush this medication down the toilet. Instead, the best way to dispose of your medication is through a medicine take-back program. Talk to your pharmacist or contact your local garbage/recycling department to learn about take-back programs in your community. See the FDA's Safe Disposal of Medicines website ( http://goo.gl/c4Rm4p ) for more information if you do not have access to a take-back program. It is important to keep all medication out of sight and reach of children as many containers (such as weekly pill minders and those for eye drops, creams, patches, and inhalers) are not child-resistant and young children can open them easily. To protect young children from poisoning, always lock safety caps and immediately place the medication in a safe location – one that is up and away and out of their sight and reach. http://www.upandaway.org In case of emergency/overdose If someone swallows pyrethrin and piperonyl butoxide shampoo, call your local poison control center at 1-800-222-1222. If the victim has collapsed or is not breathing, call local emergency services at 911. What other information should I know? If you feel you need additional treatment for lice after completing use of pyrethrin and piperonyl butoxide shampoo, call your doctor. Ask your pharmacist any questions you have about pyrethrin and piperonyl butoxide shampoo. Lice are generally spread by close head-to-head contact or from items which come in contact with your head. Do not share combs, brushes, towels, pillows, hats, scarves, or hair accessories. Be sure to check everyone in your immediate family for head lice if another family member is being treated for lice. If you have pubic lice, your sexual partner should also be treated. It is important for you to keep a written list of all of the prescription and nonprescription (over-the-counter) medicines you are taking, as well as any products such as vitamins, minerals, or other dietary supplements. You should bring this list with you each time you visit a doctor or if you are admitted to a hospital. It is also important information to carry with you in case of emergencies.

[ Antipyrine-Benzocaine Otic pronounced as (an tee pye' reen) (ben' zoe kane) To use the sharing features on this page, please enable JavaScript. Why is this medication prescribed? How should this medicine be used? Other uses for this medicine What special precautions should I follow? What special dietary instructions should I follow? What should I do if I forget a dose? What side effects can this medication cause? What should I know about storage and disposal of this medication? In case of emergency/overdose What other information should I know? Why is this medication prescribed? Antipyrine and benzocaine otic is used to relieve ear pain and swelling caused by middle ear infections. It may be used along with antibiotics to treat an ear infection. It is also used to help remove a build up of ear wax in the ear. Antipyrine and benzocaine are in a class of medications called analgesics. The combination of antipyrine and benzocaine works by reducing pain and discomfort in the ear. How should this medicine be used? Antipyrine and benzocaine otic comes as a solution (liquid) to place into the ear. When antipyrine and benzocaine is used to relieve ear pain, it is usually used every 1 to 2 hours as needed. When antipyrine and benzocaine is used to help in the removal of ear wax, it is usually used 3 times daily for 2-3 days. Follow the directions on your prescription label carefully, and ask your doctor or pharmacist to explain any part you do not understand. Use antipyrine and benzocaine otic exactly as directed. Antipyrine and benzocaine otic is for use only in the ears. To use the eardrops, follow these steps: Hold the bottle in your hand for 1 or 2 minutes to warm the solution. Place the prescribed number of drops into your ear. Be careful not to touch the tip to your ear, fingers, or any other surface. Moisten a small piece of cotton with the drops and insert into the outer ear. Repeat steps 2-4 for the opposite ear if necessary. Other uses for this medicine This medication may be prescribed for other uses; ask your doctor or pharmacist for more information. What special precautions should I follow? Before using antipyrine and benzocaine otic, tell your doctor and pharmacist if you are allergic to antipyrine or benzocaine or any other medications. tell your doctor and pharmacist what other prescription and nonprescription medications, vitamins, nutritional supplements, and herbal products you are taking or plan to take while using antipyrine and benzocaine otic. tell your doctor if you have a hole in your ear drum(s) or ear tube(s). Your doctor will probably tell you not to use this medication. tell your doctor if you are pregnant, plan to become pregnant, or are breast-feeding. If you become pregnant while using antipyrine and benzocaine otic, call your doctor. What special dietary instructions should I follow? Unless your doctor tells you otherwise, continue your normal diet. What should I do if I forget a dose? This medication is usually used as needed. If your doctor has told you to use antipyrine and benzocaine otic regularly, use the missed dose as soon as you remember it. However, if it is almost time for the next dose, skip the missed dose and continue your regular dosing schedule. Do not use extra solution to make up for a missed one. What side effects can this medication cause? Antipyrine and benzocaine otic may cause side effects. Call your doctor if you have any unusual problems while taking this medication. What should I know about storage and disposal of this medication? Keep this medication in the container it came in, tightly closed, and out of reach of children. Store it at room temperature and away from excess heat and moisture (not in the bathroom). Do not freeze. Antipyrine and benzocaine otic should be disposed of 6 months after the bottle is opened. Unneeded medications should be disposed of in special ways to ensure that pets, children, and other people cannot consume them. However, you should not flush this medication down the toilet. Instead, the best way to dispose of your medication is through a medicine take-back program. Talk to your pharmacist or contact your local garbage/recycling department to learn about take-back programs in your community. See the FDA's Safe Disposal of Medicines website ( http://goo.gl/c4Rm4p ) for more information if you do not have access to a take-back program. It is important to keep all medication out of sight and reach of children as many containers (such as weekly pill minders and those for eye drops, creams, patches, and inhalers) are not child-resistant and young children can open them easily. To protect young children from poisoning, always lock safety caps and immediately place the medication in a safe location – one that is up and away and out of their sight and reach. http://www.upandaway.org In case of emergency/overdose If someone swallows antipyrine and benzocaine otic, call your local poison control center at 1-800-222-1222. If the victim has collapsed or is not breathing, call local emergency services at 911. What other information should I know? Keep all appointments with your doctor. Do not let anyone else take your medication. Ask your pharmacist any questions you have about refilling your prescription. It is important for you to keep a written list of all of the prescription and nonprescription (over-the-counter) medicines you are taking, as well as any products such as vitamins, minerals, or other dietary supplements. You should bring this list with you each time you visit a doctor or if you are admitted to a hospital. It is also important information to carry with you in case of emergencies.





[ Chlordiazepoxide pronounced as (klor dye az e pox' ide) To use the sharing features on this page, please enable JavaScript. Why is this medication prescribed? How should this medicine be used? Other uses for this medicine What special precautions should I follow? What should I do if I forget a dose? What side effects can this medication cause? What should I know about storage and disposal of this medication? In case of emergency/overdose What other information should I know? Brand names IMPORTANT WARNING: Chlordiazepoxide may increase the risk of serious or life-threatening breathing problems, sedation, or coma if used along with certain medications. Tell your doctor if you are taking or plan to take certain opiate medications for cough such as codeine (in Triacin-C, in Tuzistra XR) or hydrocodone (in Anexsia, in Norco, in Zyfrel) or for pain such as codeine (in Fiorinal), fentanyl (Actiq, Duragesic, Subsys, others), hydromorphone (Dilaudid, Exalgo), meperidine (Demerol), methadone (Dolophine, Methadose), morphine (Astramorph, Duramorph PF, Kadian), oxycodone (in Oxycet, in Percocet, in Roxicet, others), and tramadol (Conzip, Ultram, in Ultracet). Your doctor may need to change the dosages of your medications and will monitor you carefully. If you take chlordiazepoxide with any of these medications and you develop any of the following symptoms, call your doctor immediately or seek emergency medical care immediately: unusual dizziness, lightheadedness, extreme sleepiness, slowed or difficult breathing, or unresponsiveness. Be sure that your caregiver or family members know which symptoms may be serious so they can call the doctor or emergency medical care if you are unable to seek treatment on your own. Chlordiazepoxide may be habit forming. Do not take a larger dose, take it more often, or for a longer time than your doctor tells you to. Tell your doctor if you have ever drunk large amounts of alcohol, if you use or have ever used street drugs, or have overused prescription medications. Do not drink alcohol or use street drugs during your treatment. Drinking alcohol or using street drugs during your treatment with chlordiazepoxide also increases the risk that you will experience these serious, life-threatening side effects. Also tell your doctor if you have or have ever had depression or another mental illness. Chlordiazepoxide may cause a physical dependence (a condition in which unpleasant physical symptoms occur if a medication is suddenly stopped or taken in smaller doses), especially if you take it for several days to several weeks. Do not stop taking this medication or take fewer doses without talking to your doctor. Stopping chlordiazepoxide suddenly can worsen your condition and cause withdrawal symptoms that may last for several weeks to more than 12 months. Your doctor probably will decrease your chlordiazepoxide dose gradually. Call your doctor or get emergency medical treatment if you experience any of the following symptoms: unusual movements; ringing in your ears; anxiety; memory problems; difficulty concentrating; sleep problems; seizures; shaking; muscle twitching; changes in mental health; depression; burning or prickling feeling in hands, arms, legs or feet; seeing or hearing things that others do not see or hear; thoughts of harming or killing yourself or others; overexcitement; or losing touch with reality. Why is this medication prescribed? Chlordiazepoxide is used to relieve anxiety and to control agitation caused by alcohol withdrawal. Chlordiazepoxide is in a class of medications called benzodiazepines. It works by decreasing abnormal electrical activity in the brain. How should this medicine be used? Chlordiazepoxide comes as a tablet and capsule to take by mouth. It usually is taken one to four times a day with or without food. Follow the directions on your prescription label carefully, and ask your doctor or pharmacist to explain any part you do not understand. Take chlordiazepoxide exactly as directed. Other uses for this medicine Chlordiazepoxide is also used to treat irritable bowel syndrome. Talk to your doctor about the possible risks of using this medication for your condition. This medication is sometimes prescribed for other uses; ask your doctor or pharmacist for more information. What special precautions should I follow? Before taking chlordiazepoxide, tell your doctor and pharmacist if you are allergic to chlordiazepoxide, alprazolam (Xanax), clonazepam (Klonopin), clorazepate (Gen-Xene, Tranxene), diazepam (Diastat, Valium), estazolam, flurazepam, lorazepam (Ativan), oxazepam, temazepam (Restoril), triazolam (Halcion), any other medications, or any of the ingredients in tablets and capsules. Ask your pharmacist for a list of the ingredients. tell your doctor and pharmacist what prescription and nonprescription medications, vitamins, nutritional supplements, and herbal products you are taking or plan to take. Be sure to mention any of the following: antihistamines; cimetidine (Tagamet); digoxin (Lanoxin); disulfiram (Antabuse); fluoxetine (Prozac, Sarafem, Selfemra); isoniazid (Laniazid, in Rifamate, in Rifater); ketoconazole (Nizoral); levodopa (in Ritary, in Sinemet, in Stalevo); medications for depression, seizures, Parkinson's disease, asthma, colds, or allergies; metoprolol (Lopressor, Toprol XL, others); muscle relaxants; oral contraceptives; probenecid (Probalan, in Col-Probenecid); propranolol (Inderal, Innopran); rifampin (Rifadin, Rimactane, in Rifamate, in Rifater); sedatives; sleeping pills; theophylline (Elixophyllin, Theo 24, Theochron); tranquilizers; and valproic acid (Depakene). Your doctor may need to change the doses of your medications or monitor you carefully for side effects. tell your doctor if you have or have ever had glaucoma; seizures; or lung, heart, or liver disease. tell your doctor if you are pregnant, plan to become pregnant, or are breastfeeding. If you become pregnant while taking chlordiazepoxide, call your doctor immediately. talk to your doctor about the risks and benefits of taking chlordiazepoxide if you are 65 years of age or older. Older adults should not usually take chlordiazepoxide because it is not as safe or effective as other medication(s) that can be used to treat the same condition. if you are having surgery, including dental surgery, tell the doctor or dentist that you are taking chlordiazepoxide. you should know that this medication may make you drowsy. Do not drive a car or operate machinery until you know how this medication affects you. What should I do if I forget a dose? If you take several doses per day and miss a dose, skip the missed dose and continue your regular dosing schedule. Do not take a double dose to make up for a missed one. What side effects can this medication cause? Chlordiazepoxide may cause side effects. Tell your doctor if any of these symptoms are severe or do not go away: drowsiness dizziness tiredness weakness dry mouth diarrhea upset stomach changes in appetite Tell your doctor if any of these symptoms are severe or do not go away: restlessness or excitement constipation difficulty urinating frequent urination blurred vision changes in sex drive or ability Some side effects can be serious. If you experience any of the following symptoms or those listed in the IMPORTANT WARNING section, call your doctor immediately or get emergency medical help: shuffling walk persistent, fine tremor or inability to sit still fever difficulty breathing or swallowing severe skin rash yellowing of the skin or eyes irregular heartbeat If you experience a serious side effect, you or your doctor may send a report to the Food and Drug Administration's (FDA) MedWatch Adverse Event Reporting program online ( http://www.fda.gov/Safety/MedWatch ) or by phone (1-800-332-1088). What should I know about storage and disposal of this medication? Keep this medication in the container it came in, tightly closed, and out of reach of children. Store it at room temperature and away from excess heat and moisture (not in the bathroom). It is important to keep all medication out of sight and reach of children as many containers (such as weekly pill minders and those for eye drops, creams, patches, and inhalers) are not child-resistant and young children can open them easily. To protect young children from poisoning, always lock safety caps and immediately place the medication in a safe location – one that is up and away and out of their sight and reach. http://www.upandaway.org Unneeded medications should be disposed of in special ways to ensure that pets, children, and other people cannot consume them. However, you should not flush this medication down the toilet. Instead, the best way to dispose of your medication is through a medicine take-back program. Talk to your pharmacist or contact your local garbage/recycling department to learn about take-back programs in your community. See the FDA's Safe Disposal of Medicines website ( http://goo.gl/c4Rm4p ) for more information if you do not have access to a take-back program. In case of emergency/overdose In case of overdose, call the poison control helpline at 1-800-222-1222. Information is also available online at https://www.poisonhelp.org/help . If the victim has collapsed, had a seizure, has trouble breathing, or can't be awakened, immediately call emergency services at 911. What other information should I know? Keep all appointments with your doctor. Chlordiazepoxide can cause false results when using the Gravindex pregnancy test. Do not let anyone else take your medication. Ask your pharmacist any questions you have about refilling your prescription. It is important for you to keep a written list of all of the prescription and nonprescription (over-the-counter) medicines you are taking, as well as any products such as vitamins, minerals, or other dietary supplements. You should bring this list with you each time you visit a doctor or if you are admitted to a hospital. It is also important information to carry with you in case of emergencies. Brand names A-poxide ® ¶ Chlordiazachel ® ¶ H-Tran ® ¶ Librelease ® ¶ Libritabs ® ¶ Librium ® Lygen ® ¶ Mitran ® ¶ Poxi ® ¶ Librax ® (as a combination product containing Clidinium, Chlordiazepoxide)

[ Tetrahydrozoline Ophthalmic pronounced as (tet ra hye droz' a leen) To use the sharing features on this page, please enable JavaScript. Why is this medication prescribed? How should this medicine be used? Other uses for this medicine What special precautions should I follow? What should I do if I forget a dose? What side effects can this medication cause? What should I know about storage and disposal of this medication? What other information should I know? Brand names Why is this medication prescribed? Ophthalmic tetrahydrozoline is used to relieve minor eye irritation and redness caused by colds, pollen, and swimming. How should this medicine be used? Ophthalmic tetrahydrozoline comes as a solution (liquid) to instill in the eyes. The eye drops are usually instilled in the affected eyes three or four times a day as needed. Follow the directions on the package label or your prescription label carefully, and ask your doctor or pharmacist to explain any part you do not understand. Use tetrahydrozoline exactly as directed. Do not use more or less of it or use it more often than directed by your doctor or written on the package label. To use the eye drops, follow these steps: Wash your hands thoroughly with soap and water. Check the dropper tip to make sure that it is not chipped or cracked. Avoid touching the dropper tip against your eye or anything else; eye drops and droppers must be kept clean. While tilting your head back, pull down the lower lid of your eye with your index finger to form a pocket. Hold the dropper (tip down) with the other hand, as close to the eye as possible without touching it. Brace the remaining fingers of that hand against your face. While looking up, gently squeeze the dropper so that a single drop falls into the pocket made by the lower eyelid. Remove your index finger from the lower eyelid. Close your eye for 2 to 3 minutes and tip your head down as though looking at the floor. Try not to blink or squeeze your eyelids. Place a finger on the tear duct and apply gentle pressure. Wipe any excess liquid from your face with a tissue. If you are to use more than one drop in the same eye, wait at least 5 minutes before instilling the next drop. Replace and tighten the cap on the dropper bottle. Do not wipe or rinse the dropper tip. Wash your hands to remove any medication. Other uses for this medicine This medication may be prescribed for other uses. Ask your doctor or pharmacist for more information. What special precautions should I follow? Before using tetrahydrozoline eye drops, tell your doctor and pharmacist if you are allergic to tetrahydrozoline or any other medications. tell your doctor and pharmacist what prescription and nonprescription medications you are taking, especially eye medications, medications for high blood pressure, MAO inhibitors [phenelzine (Nardil) and tranylcypromine (Parnate)], and vitamins. tell your doctor if you have any eye disease or infection, heart disease, high blood pressure, or an overactive thyroid gland. tell your doctor if you are pregnant, plan to become pregnant, or are breast-feeding. If you become pregnant while using tetrahydrozoline eye drops, call your doctor. if you are having surgery, including dental surgery, tell your doctor or dentist that you are using tetrahydrozoline eye drops. You may have to stop using tetrahydrozoline eye drops for a short time. tell your doctor if you wear soft contact lenses. If the brand of tetrahydrozoline eye drops you are using contains benzalkonium chloride, wait at least 15 minutes after using the medicine to put in soft contact lenses. What should I do if I forget a dose? Tetrahydrazoline eye drops are usually instilled as needed. However, if your doctor has told you to instill the drops on a regular schedule and you miss a dose, instill the missed dose as soon as you remember it. However, if it is almost time for the next dose, skip the missed dose and continue your regular dosing schedule. Do not instill a double dose to make up for a missed one. What side effects can this medication cause? Tetrahydrozoline eye drops may cause side effects. Tell your doctor if any of these symptoms are severe or do not go away: stinging or burning of the eye blurred vision increased eye redness or irritation If you experience any of the following symptoms, stop using tetrahydrozoline eye drops and call your doctor immediately: headache sweating fast or irregular heartbeat nervousness If you experience a serious side effect, you or your doctor may send a report to the Food and Drug Administration's (FDA) MedWatch Adverse Event Reporting program online ( http://www.fda.gov/Safety/MedWatch ) or by phone (1-800-332-1088). What should I know about storage and disposal of this medication? Keep this medication in the container it came in, tightly closed, and out of reach of children. Store it at room temperature and away from excess heat and moisture (not in the bathroom). If the medication becomes discolored, do not use it; obtain a fresh bottle. Unneeded medications should be disposed of in special ways to ensure that pets, children, and other people cannot consume them. However, you should not flush this medication down the toilet. Instead, the best way to dispose of your medication is through a medicine take-back program. Talk to your pharmacist or contact your local garbage/recycling department to learn about take-back programs in your community. See the FDA's Safe Disposal of Medicines website ( http://goo.gl/c4Rm4p ) for more information if you do not have access to a take-back program. It is important to keep all medication out of sight and reach of children as many containers (such as weekly pill minders and those for eye drops, creams, patches, and inhalers) are not child-resistant and young children can open them easily. To protect young children from poisoning, always lock safety caps and immediately place the medication in a safe location – one that is up and away and out of their sight and reach. http://www.upandaway.org What other information should I know? Keep all appointments with your doctor. Do not let anyone else use your medication. Ask your pharmacist any questions you have about tetrahydrozoline eye drops. If you still have symptoms of eye irritation after using tetrahydrozoline as directed, call your doctor. It is important for you to keep a written list of all of the prescription and nonprescription (over-the-counter) medicines you are taking, as well as any products such as vitamins, minerals, or other dietary supplements. You should bring this list with you each time you visit a doctor or if you are admitted to a hospital. It is also important information to carry with you in case of emergencies. Brand names Collyrium Fresh ® Murine ® Plus Optigene ® 3 Visine ®

[ Abacavir pronounced as (a ba ka' vir) To use the sharing features on this page, please enable JavaScript. Why is this medication prescribed? How should this medicine be used? Other uses for this medicine What special precautions should I follow? What special dietary instructions should I follow? What should I do if I forget a dose? What side effects can this medication cause? What should I know about storage and disposal of this medication? In case of emergency/overdose What other information should I know? Brand names IMPORTANT WARNING: Abacavir may cause a serious or life-threatening allergic reaction. Call your doctor immediately if you develop one symptom from two or more of the following groups to see if you should stop taking abacavir: Group 1: fever Group 2: rash Group 3: nausea, vomiting, diarrhea, or stomach area pain Group 4: generally ill feeling, extreme tiredness, or achiness Group 5: shortness of breath, cough, or sore throat Your pharmacist will give you a Warning Card when you receive your medication. The Warning Card contains a list of the symptoms above. Carry the card with you. Some people may be more likely to have an allergic reaction to abacavir based on their heredity or genetic make-up. Your doctor will order a lab test to determine if you are more likely to have an allergic reaction to abacavir. Tell your doctor and pharmacist if you are allergic to abacavir or any other medications that contain abacavir. Do not take this medication if you have had a previous allergic reaction to abacavir or any other medication containing abacavir. If your doctor tells you to stop taking abacavir because you had an allergic reaction, never take abacavir or a medication containing abacavir again. If you stop taking abacavir for any other reason, including missing several doses in a row or running out of medication, do not start taking it again without first talking to your doctor. You will need to be around people who can provide or call for emergency medical care, if needed, when you restart this medication. Keep all appointments with your doctor and the laboratory. Your doctor will order certain lab tests to check your body's response to abacavir. Your doctor or pharmacist will give you the manufacturer's patient information sheet (Medication Guide) and a Warning Card when you begin treatment with abacavir and each time you refill your prescription. Read the information carefully and ask your doctor or pharmacist if you have any questions. You can also visit the Food and Drug Administration (FDA) website ( http://www.fda.gov/Drugs/DrugSafety/ucm085729.htm ) or the manufacturer's website to obtain the Medication Guide and Warning Card. Talk to your doctor about the risks of taking abacavir. Why is this medication prescribed? Abacavir is used along with other medications to treat human immunodeficiency virus (HIV) infection. Abacavir is in a class of medications called nucleoside reverse transcriptase inhibitors (NRTIs). It works by decreasing the amount of HIV in the blood. Although abacavir does not cure HIV, it may decrease your chance of developing acquired immunodeficiency syndrome (AIDS) and HIV-related illnesses such as serious infections or cancer. Taking these medications along with practicing safer sex and making other lifestyle changes may decrease the risk of transmitting (spreading) the HIV virus to other people. How should this medicine be used? Abacavir comes as a tablet and a solution (liquid) to take by mouth. It is usually taken once or twice daily with or without food. Take abacavir at around the same time(s) every day. Follow the directions on your prescription label carefully, and ask your doctor or pharmacist to explain any part you do not understand. Take abacavir exactly as directed. Do not take more or less of it or take it more often than prescribed by your doctor. Abacavir helps to control HIV infection but does not cure it. Continue to take abacavir even if you feel well. Do not stop taking abacavir without talking to your doctor. If you stop taking abacavir or skip doses, your condition may become more difficult to treat, or you could have an allergic reaction when restarting the medication (See Important Warning section). Do not run out of medication. When your supply of abacavir starts to run low, get more from your doctor or pharmacist. Other uses for this medicine Abacavir is also used in combination with other antiviral medications to prevent HIV infection in people who have been exposed to it. Talk to your doctor about the possible risks of using this medication for your condition. This medication may be prescribed for other uses; ask your doctor or pharmacist for more information. What special precautions should I follow? Before taking abacavir, tell your doctor and pharmacist if you are allergic to any medications or any of the ingredients in abacavir tablets or solution. Ask your pharmacist for a list of the ingredients. Tell your doctor and pharmacist what prescription and nonprescription medications, vitamins, nutritional supplements, and herbal products you are taking or plan to take while taking abacavir. Your doctor may need to change the doses of your medications or monitor you carefully for side effects. in addition to the condition listed in the IMPORTANT WARNING section, tell your doctor if you have or have ever had depression, diabetes, high blood pressure, high cholesterol, or liver or heart disease. tell your doctor if you are pregnant, plan to become pregnant, or are breastfeeding. If you become pregnant while taking abacavir, call your doctor. You should not breastfeed if you are infected with HIV or if you are taking abacavir. talk to your doctor about the safe use of alcohol while taking this medication. tell your doctor if you smoke. you should know that while you are taking medications to treat HIV infection, your immune system may get stronger and begin to fight other infections that were already in your body, such as pneumonia, herpes virus, tuberculosis, hepatitis, or a fungal infection. If you have new symptoms after starting treatment with abacavir, be sure to tell your doctor. What special dietary instructions should I follow? Unless your doctor tells you otherwise, continue your normal diet. What should I do if I forget a dose? Take the missed dose as soon as you remember it. However, if it is almost time for the next dose, skip the missed dose and continue your regular dosing schedule. Do not take a double dose to make up for a missed one. If you miss several doses of abacavir, call your doctor before starting to take this medication again. (See Important Warning section). What side effects can this medication cause? Abacavir may cause side effects. Tell your doctor if any of these symptoms are severe or do not go away: headache depression anxiety difficulty falling asleep or staying asleep Some side effects can be serious. If you experience any of these symptoms or those listed in the IMPORTANT WARNING section, call your doctor immediately: blisters or peeling skin hives itching difficulty swallowing or breathing excessive tiredness; weakness, dizziness or lightheadedness; fast or irregular heartbeat; muscle pain; stomach pain with nausea and vomiting; shortness of breath or difficulty breathing; flu-like symptoms such as fever, chills, or cough; or feeling cold, especially in the arms or legs light-colored bowel movements; yellowing of the skin or eyes; loss of appetite; unusual bleeding or bruising; dark yellow or brown urine; or pain in the upper right part of stomach Abacavir may cause other side effects. Call your doctor if you have any unusual problems while taking this medication. If you experience a serious side effect, you or your doctor may send a report to the Food and Drug Administration's (FDA) MedWatch Adverse Event Reporting program online ( http://www.fda.gov/Safety/MedWatch ) or by phone (1-800-332-1088). What should I know about storage and disposal of this medication? Keep this medication in the container it came in, tightly closed, and out of reach of children. Store it at room temperature and away from excess heat and moisture (not in the bathroom). Store liquid medication at room temperature or in the refrigerator. Do not freeze. It is important to keep all medication out of sight and reach of children as many containers (such as weekly pill minders and those for eye drops, creams, patches, and inhalers) are not child-resistant and young children can open them easily. To protect young children from poisoning, always lock safety caps and immediately place the medication in a safe location – one that is up and away and out of their sight and reach. http://www.upandaway.org Unneeded medications should be disposed of in special ways to ensure that pets, children, and other people cannot consume them. However, you should not flush this medication down the toilet. Instead, the best way to dispose of your medication is through a medicine take-back program. Talk to your pharmacist or contact your local garbage/recycling department to learn about take-back programs in your community. See the FDA's Safe Disposal of Medicines website ( http://goo.gl/c4Rm4p ) for more information if you do not have access to a take-back program. In case of emergency/overdose In case of overdose, call the poison control helpline at 1-800-222-1222. Information is also available online at https://www.poisonhelp.org/help . If the victim has collapsed, had a seizure, has trouble breathing, or can't be awakened, immediately call emergency services at 911. What other information should I know? Do not let anyone else take your medication. Ask your pharmacist any questions you have about refilling your prescription. Keep a supply of abacavir on hand. Do not wait until you run out of medication to refill your prescription. It is important for you to keep a written list of all of the prescription and nonprescription (over-the-counter) medicines you are taking, as well as any products such as vitamins, minerals, or other dietary supplements. You should bring this list with you each time you visit a doctor or if you are admitted to a hospital. It is also important information to carry with you in case of emergencies. Brand names Ziagen ®



[ Abacavir, Lamivudine, and Zidovudine pronounced as (a bak' a vir) (la miv' ue deen) (zye doe' vue deen ) To use the sharing features on this page, please enable JavaScript. Why is this medication prescribed? How should this medicine be used? Other uses for this medicine What special precautions should I follow? What special dietary instructions should I follow? What should I do if I forget a dose? What side effects can this medication cause? What should I know about storage and disposal of this medication? In case of emergency/overdose What other information should I know? IMPORTANT WARNING: Abacavir, lamivudine, and zidovudine may cause a serious or life-threatening allergic reaction. Call your doctor immediately if you develop one symptom from two or more of the following groups to see if you should stop taking abacavir, lamivudine, and zidovudine: Group 1: fever Group 2: rash Group 3: nausea, vomiting, diarrhea, or stomach area pain Group 4: generally ill feeling, extreme tiredness, or achiness Group 5: shortness of breath, cough, or sore throat Your pharmacist will give you a Warning Card each time you receive your medication. The Warning Card lists the symptoms mentioned above to make it easy for you and the people around you to recognize if you are having an allergic reaction. Be sure to carry this Warning Card with you at all times. Some people may be more likely to have an allergic reaction to abacavir, based on their heredity or genetic make-up. Your doctor may order a genetic lab test prior to starting abacavir, lamivudine, and zidovudine to determine if you are more likely to have an allergic reaction to abacavir. Tell your doctor and pharmacist if you are allergic to abacavir or any other medications that contain abacavir or if you know that you have that particular genetic makeup. If your doctor tells you to stop taking abacavir, lamivudine, and zidovudine because you had an allergic reaction, never take abacavir, lamivudine, and zidovudine or a medication containing abacavir again. If you stop taking abacavir, lamivudine, and zidovudine for any other reason, including missing several doses in a row or running out of medication, do not start taking it again without first talking to your doctor. Restarting abacavir, lamivudine, and zidovudine increases your risk of experiencing an allergic reaction, even if you never had a reaction to it before. You will need to be around people who can provide or call for emergency medical care, if needed, when you restart this medication. Abacavir, lamivudine, and zidovudine may stop your body from making enough blood cells. Tell your doctor if you have or have ever had a low number of any type of blood cells or any blood disorders such as anemia or bone marrow problems. If you experience any of the following symptoms, call your doctor immediately: unusual bleeding or bruising; shortness of breath; pale skin; fever, sore throat, chills, and other signs of infection; or unusual tiredness or weakness. Abacavir, lamivudine, and zidovudine may cause muscle disorders. Tell your doctor if you have or have ever had any muscular disease or swelling of the muscles. If you experience muscle pain or weakness, call your doctor immediately. Abacavir, lamivudine, and zidovudine may cause life-threatening damage to the liver and a potentially life-threatening condition called lactic acidosis (buildup of lactic acid in the blood). Tell your doctor if you have or have ever had liver disease. If you have liver disease, your doctor will probably tell you not to take abacavir, lamivudine, and zidovudine. You may also be at an increased risk of developing lactic acidosis if you are female, very overweight, or have been taking nucleoside reverse transcriptase inhibitor medications like abacavir, lamivudine, and zidovudine for a long time. If you experience any of the following symptoms, call your doctor immediately or get emergency medical treatment: nausea, vomiting, pain in the upper right part of your stomach, loss of appetite, flu-like symptoms, extreme tiredness, unusual bleeding or bruising, weakness, dizziness, lightheadedness, fast or irregular heartbeat, trouble breathing, dark yellow or brown urine, light-colored bowel movements, yellowing of the skin or eyes, feeling cold, especially in the arms or legs, or muscle pain that is different from any muscle pain you usually experience. Abacavir, lamivudine, and zidovudine should not be used to treat hepatitis B virus infection (HBV; an ongoing liver infection). Tell your doctor if you have or think you may have HBV. Your doctor may test you to see if you have HBV before you begin your treatment with abacavir, lamivudine, and zidovudine. If you have HBV and you take abacavir, lamivudine, and zidovudine, your condition may suddenly worsen when you stop taking this medication. Your doctor will examine you and order lab tests regularly for several months after you stop taking this medication to see if your HBV has worsened. Your doctor or pharmacist will give you the manufacturer's patient information sheet (Medication Guide) when you begin treatment with abacavir, lamivudine, and zidovudine and each time you refill your prescription. Read the information carefully and ask your doctor or pharmacist if you have any questions. You can also visit the Food and Drug Administration (FDA) website ( http://www.fda.gov/Drugs/DrugSafety/ucm085729.htm ) to obtain the Medication Guide. Talk to your doctor about the risks of taking abacavir, lamivudine, and zidovudine. Why is this medication prescribed? The combination of abacavir, lamivudine and zidovudine is used alone or along with other medications to treat human immunodeficiency virus (HIV) infection. Abacavir, lamivudine and zidovudine are in a class of medications called nucleoside reverse transcriptase inhibitors (NRTIs). They work by decreasing the amount of HIV in the blood. Although the combination of abacavir, lamivudine and zidovudine does not cure HIV, it may decrease your chance of developing acquired immunodeficiency syndrome (AIDS) and HIV-related illnesses such as serious infections or cancer. Taking these medications along with practicing safer sex and making other lifestyle changes may decrease the risk of transmitting (spreading) the HIV virus to other people. How should this medicine be used? The combination of abacavir, lamivudine, and zidovudine comes as a tablet to take by mouth. It is usually taken with or without food two times a day. Take abacavir, lamivudine, and zidovudine at around the same times every day. Follow the directions on your prescription label carefully, and ask your doctor or pharmacist to explain any part you do not understand. Take abacavir, lamivudine, and zidovudine exactly as directed. Do not take more or less of it or take it more often than prescribed by your doctor. Abacavir, lamivudine, and zidovudine helps to control HIV infection but does not cure it. Continue to take abacavir, lamivudine, and zidovudine even if you feel well. Do not stop taking abacavir, lamivudine, and zidovudine without talking to your doctor. If you stop taking abacavir, lamivudine, and zidovudine, or skip doses, your condition may become more difficult to treat, or you could have an allergic reaction when restarting the medication (See Important Warning section). Other uses for this medicine This medication may be prescribed for other uses; ask your doctor or pharmacist for more information. What special precautions should I follow? Before taking abacavir, lamivudine, and zidovudine, tell your doctor and pharmacist if you are allergic to any of the ingredients in abacavir, lamivudine, and zidovudine tablets. Ask your pharmacist or check the Medication Guide for a list of the ingredients. tell your doctor and pharmacist what other prescription and nonprescription medications, vitamins, nutritional supplements, and herbal products you are taking or plan to take while taking abacavir, lamivudine, and zidovudine. Your doctor may need to change the doses of your medications or monitor you carefully for side effects. tell your doctor if you smoke or drink alcohol, or if you have or have ever had any of the conditions mentioned in the IMPORTANT WARNING section; high blood pressure; high cholesterol; diabetes; or heart or kidney disease. tell your doctor if you are pregnant, plan to become pregnant or are breastfeeding. If you become pregnant while taking abacavir, lamivudine, and zidovudine, call your doctor. You should not breastfeed if you are infected with HIV or if you are taking abacavir, lamivudine, and zidovudine. you should be aware that your body fat may increase or move to different areas of your body, such as your upper back, neck (''buffalo hump''), breasts, and around your stomach. You may notice a loss of body fat from your face, legs, and arms. you should know that while you are taking medications to treat HIV infection, your immune system may get stronger and begin to fight other infections that were already in your body or cause other conditions to occur. This may cause you to develop symptoms of those infections or conditions. If you have new or worsening symptoms during your treatment with abacavir, lamivudine, and zidovudine, be sure to tell your doctor. What special dietary instructions should I follow? Unless your doctor tells you otherwise, continue your normal diet. What should I do if I forget a dose? Take the missed dose as soon as you remember it. However, if it is almost time for the next dose, skip the missed dose and continue your regular dosing schedule. Do not take a double dose to make up for a missed one. What side effects can this medication cause? Abacavir, lamivudine, and zidovudine may cause side effects. Tell your doctor if any of these symptoms are severe or do not go away: anxiety depression headache Some side effects can be serious. If you experience any of the symptoms listed in the IMPORTANT WARNING section, call your doctor immediately or get emergency medical treatment. Abacavir, lamivudine, and zidovudine may cause other side effects. Call your doctor if you have any unusual problems while taking this medication. If you experience a serious side effect, you or your doctor may send a report to the Food and Drug Administration's (FDA) MedWatch Adverse Event Reporting program online ( http://www.fda.gov/Safety/MedWatch ) or by phone (1-800-332-1088). What should I know about storage and disposal of this medication? Keep this medication in the container it came in, tightly closed, and out of reach of children. Store it at room temperature and away from excess heat and moisture (not in the bathroom). It is important to keep all medication out of sight and reach of children as many containers (such as weekly pill minders and those for eye drops, creams, patches, and inhalers) are not child-resistant and young children can open them easily. To protect young children from poisoning, always lock safety caps and immediately place the medication in a safe location – one that is up and away and out of their sight and reach. http://www.upandaway.org Unneeded medications should be disposed of in special ways to ensure that pets, children, and other people cannot consume them. However, you should not flush this medication down the toilet. Instead, the best way to dispose of your medication is through a medicine take-back program. Talk to your pharmacist or contact your local garbage/recycling department to learn about take-back programs in your community. See the FDA's Safe Disposal of Medicines website ( http://goo.gl/c4Rm4p ) for more information if you do not have access to a take-back program. In case of emergency/overdose In case of overdose, call the poison control helpline at 1-800-222-1222. Information is also available online at https://www.poisonhelp.org/help . If the victim has collapsed, had a seizure, has trouble breathing, or can't be awakened, immediately call emergency services at 911. Symptoms of overdose may include the following: headache vomiting extreme tiredness What other information should I know? Keep all appointments with your doctor and the laboratory. Your doctor may order certain lab tests to check your body's response to abacavir, lamivudine, and zidovudine. Do not let anyone else take your medication. Ask your pharmacist any questions you have about refilling your prescription. Keep a supply of abacavir, lamivudine, and zidovudine on hand. Do not wait until you run out of medication to refill your prescription. It is important for you to keep a written list of all of the prescription and nonprescription (over-the-counter) medicines you are taking, as well as any products such as vitamins, minerals, or other dietary supplements. You should bring this list with you each time you visit a doctor or if you are admitted to a hospital. It is also important information to carry with you in case of emergencies.













































[ Benzoyl Peroxide Topical pronounced as (ben' zoe il) To use the sharing features on this page, please enable JavaScript. Why is this medication prescribed? How should this medicine be used? What special precautions should I follow? What should I do if I forget a dose? What side effects can this medication cause? What should I know about storage and disposal of this medication? What other information should I know? Brand names Why is this medication prescribed? Benzoyl peroxide is used to treat mild to moderate acne. How should this medicine be used? Benzoyl peroxide comes in cleansing liquid or bar, lotion, cream, and gel for use on the skin. Benzoyl peroxide usually is used one or two times daily. Start with once daily to see how your skin reacts to this medication. Follow the directions on the package or on your prescription label carefully, and ask your doctor or pharmacist to explain any part you do not understand. Use benzoyl peroxide exactly as directed. Do not use more or less of it or use it more often than directed by your doctor. Apply a small amount of the benzoyl peroxide product to one or two small areas you want to treat for 3 days when you begin to use this medication for the first time. If no reaction or discomfort occurs, use the product as directed on the package or on your prescription label. The cleansing liquid and bar are used to wash the affected area as directed. To use the lotion, cream, or gel, first wash the affected skin areas and gently pat dry with a towel. Then apply a small amount of benzoyl Peroxide, rub it in gently. Avoid anything that may irritate your skin (e.g., abrasive soaps or cleansers, alcohol-containing products, cosmetics or soaps that dry the skin, medicated cosmetics, sunlight, and sunlamps) unless directed otherwise by your doctor. It may take 4 to 6 weeks to see the effects of this medication. If your acne does not improve after this time, call your doctor. Do not allow medication to get into your eyes, mouth, and nose. Do not use benzoyl peroxide on children less than 12 years of age without talking to a doctor. What special precautions should I follow? Before using benzoyl peroxide, tell your doctor and pharmacist if you are allergic to benzoyl peroxide, any other medications, or any of the ingredients in benzoyl peroxide products. Ask your pharmacist or check the package label for a list of the ingredients. tell your doctor and pharmacist what prescription and nonprescription medications you are taking, including vitamins. tell your doctor if you are pregnant, plan to become pregnant, or are breastfeeding. If you become pregnant while using benzoyl peroxide, call your doctor. What should I do if I forget a dose? Apply the missed dose as soon as you remember it. However, if it is almost time for the next dose, skip the missed dose and continue your regular dosing schedule. Do not apply a double dose to make up for a missed one. What side effects can this medication cause? Benzoyl peroxide may cause side effects. Tell your doctor if any of these symptoms are severe or do not go away: dryness or peeling of skin feeling of warmth tingling slight stinging Some side effects may be serious. If you experience any of these symptoms, call your doctor immediately or get emergency medical treatment: burning, blistering, redness, or swelling of the area of the treated area rash If you experience any of the following symptoms, stop using benzoyl peroxide and call your doctor immediately or get emergency medical help: hives itching throat tightness difficulty breathing feeling faint swelling of the eyes, face, lips, or tongue If you experience a serious side effect, you or your doctor may send a report to the Food and Drug Administration's (FDA) MedWatch Adverse Event Reporting program online ( http://www.fda.gov/Safety/MedWatch ) or by phone (1-800-332-1088). What should I know about storage and disposal of this medication? Keep this medication in the container it came in, tightly closed, and out of reach of children. Store it at room temperature and away from excess heat and moisture (not in the bathroom). Unneeded medications should be disposed of in special ways to ensure that pets, children, and other people cannot consume them. However, you should not flush this medication down the toilet. Instead, the best way to dispose of your medication is through a medicine take-back program. Talk to your pharmacist or contact your local garbage/recycling department to learn about take-back programs in your community. See the FDA's Safe Disposal of Medicines website ( http://goo.gl/c4Rm4p ) for more information if you do not have access to a take-back program. It is important to keep all medication out of sight and reach of children as many containers (such as weekly pill minders and those for eye drops, creams, patches, and inhalers) are not child-resistant and young children can open them easily. To protect young children from poisoning, always lock safety caps and immediately place the medication in a safe location – one that is up and away and out of their sight and reach. http://www.upandaway.org What other information should I know? Keep all appointments with your doctor. Benzoyl peroxide is for external use only. Do not let benzoyl peroxide get into your eyes, nose, or mouth, and do not swallow it. Do not apply dressings, bandages, cosmetics, lotions, or other skin medications to the area being treated unless your doctor tells you. Keep benzoyl peroxide away from your hair and colored fabrics because it may bleach them. Do not let anyone else use your medication. Tell your doctor if your skin condition gets worse or does not go away. It is important for you to keep a written list of all of the prescription and nonprescription (over-the-counter) medicines you are taking, as well as any products such as vitamins, minerals, or other dietary supplements. You should bring this list with you each time you visit a doctor or if you are admitted to a hospital. It is also important information to carry with you in case of emergencies. Brand names Acne-Clear ® Acnigel ® Ben-Aqua ® Benzac ® Benzagel ® Benzashave ® BenzEFoam ® Benziq ® Binora ® Brevoxyl ® Clear By Design ® Clearasil ® Clearplex ® Clearskin ® Clinac BPO ® Del-Aqua ® Desquam ® Ethexderm BPW ® Fostex ® Inova ® Lavoclen ® Loroxide ® NeoBenz ® Neutrogena ® Oscion ® Oxy 10 ® Pacnex ® PanOxyl ® Peroderm ® Peroxin A ® Persa-Gel ® Seba-Gel ® Soluclenz ® Theroxide ® Triaz ® Vanoxide ® Zaclir ® Zeroxin ® ZoDerm ®

[ Clindamycin and Benzoyl Peroxide Topical pronounced as (klin da mye' sin) (ben' zoe ill) (per ox' ide) To use the sharing features on this page, please enable JavaScript. Why is this medication prescribed? How should this medicine be used? Other uses for this medicine What special precautions should I follow? What special dietary instructions should I follow? What should I do if I forget a dose? What side effects can this medication cause? What should I know about storage and disposal of this medication? What other information should I know? Why is this medication prescribed? The combination of clindamycin and benzoyl peroxide is used to treat acne. Clindamycin and benzoyl peroxide are in a class of medications called topical antibiotics. The combination of clindamycin and benzoyl peroxide works by killing the bacteria that cause acne. How should this medicine be used? The combination of clindamycin and benzoyl peroxide comes as a gel to apply to the skin. It is usually applied twice a day, in the morning and evening. To help you remember to use clindamycin and benzoyl peroxide gel, apply it at around the same times every day. Follow the directions on your prescription label carefully, and ask your doctor or pharmacist to explain any part you do not understand. Use clindamycin and benzoyl peroxide gel exactly as directed. Do not use more or less of it or use it more often than prescribed by your doctor. To use the gel, follow these steps: Wash the affected area with warm water and gently pat dry with a clean towel. Use you fingertips to spread a thin layer of gel evenly over the affected area. Avoid getting the gel in your eyes, nose, mouth, or other body openings. If you do get the gel in your eyes, wash with warm water. Look in the mirror. If you see a white film on your skin, you have used too much medication. Wash your hands. Other uses for this medicine This medication may be prescribed for other uses; ask your doctor or pharmacist for more information. What special precautions should I follow? Before using clindamycin and benzoyl peroxide, tell your doctor and pharmacist if you are allergic to clindamycin (Cleocin, Clinda-Derm, C/D/S), benzoyl peroxide (Benzac, Desquam, PanOxyl, Triaz, others), lincomycin, or any other medications. tell your doctor and pharmacist what prescription and nonprescription medications, vitamins, nutritional supplements, and herbal products you are taking. Be sure to mention any of the following: erythromycin (E.E.S., E-Mycin, Erythrocin) and other topical medications for acne. Your doctor may need to change the doses of your medications or monitor you carefully for side effects. tell your doctor if you have or have ever had stomach problems, ulcerative colitis (a condition which causes swelling and sores in the lining of the colon [large intestine] and rectum), or severe diarrhea caused by antibiotics. tell your doctor if you are pregnant, plan to become pregnant, or are breast-feeding. If you become pregnant while using clindamycin and benzoyl peroxide, call your doctor. plan to avoid unnecessary or prolonged exposure to sunlight and to wear protective clothing, sunglasses, and sunscreen. Clindamycin and benzoyl peroxide may make your skin sensitive to sunlight. ask your doctor or pharmacist to recommend a moisturizer to keep your skin soft during treatment. What special dietary instructions should I follow? Unless your doctor tells you otherwise, continue your normal diet. What should I do if I forget a dose? Apply the missed dose as soon as you remember it. However, if it is almost time for the next dose, skip the missed dose and continue your regular dosing schedule. Do not apply a double dose to make up for a missed one. What side effects can this medication cause? Clindamycin and benzoyl peroxide may cause side effects. Tell your doctor if any of these symptoms are severe or do not go away: dry skin itching peeling skin red skin Some side effects can be serious. The following symptoms are uncommon, but if you experience any of them, call your doctor immediately: severe diarrhea blood or mucus in the stool severe stomach pain or cramps changes in your skin or nails that may be signs of infection with a fungus Clindamycin and benzoyl peroxide may cause other side effects. Call your doctor if you have any unusual problems while using this medication. If you experience a serious side effect, you or your doctor may send a report to the Food and Drug Administration's (FDA) MedWatch Adverse Event Reporting program online ( http://www.fda.gov/Safety/MedWatch ) or by phone (1-800-332-1088). What should I know about storage and disposal of this medication? Keep this medication in the container it came in, tightly closed, and out of reach of children. Store it at room temperature and away from excess heat and moisture (not in the bathroom). Dispose of any unused medication after 10 weeks. Unneeded medications should be disposed of in special ways to ensure that pets, children, and other people cannot consume them. However, you should not flush this medication down the toilet. Instead, the best way to dispose of your medication is through a medicine take-back program. Talk to your pharmacist or contact your local garbage/recycling department to learn about take-back programs in your community. See the FDA's Safe Disposal of Medicines website ( http://goo.gl/c4Rm4p ) for more information if you do not have access to a take-back program. It is important to keep all medication out of sight and reach of children as many containers (such as weekly pill minders and those for eye drops, creams, patches, and inhalers) are not child-resistant and young children can open them easily. To protect young children from poisoning, always lock safety caps and immediately place the medication in a safe location – one that is up and away and out of their sight and reach. http://www.upandaway.org What other information should I know? Keep all appointments with your doctor. Avoid getting clindamycin and benzoyl peroxide gel on your hair or clothing. Clindamycin and benzoyl peroxide may bleach hair or colored fabric. Do not let anyone else use your medication. Ask your pharmacist any questions you have about refilling your prescription. It is important for you to keep a written list of all of the prescription and nonprescription (over-the-counter) medicines you are taking, as well as any products such as vitamins, minerals, or other dietary supplements. You should bring this list with you each time you visit a doctor or if you are admitted to a hospital. It is also important information to carry with you in case of emergencies.







[ Phenylephrine pronounced as (fen il ef' rin)  Phenylephrine is used to relieve nasal discomfort caused by colds, allergies, and hay fever. It is also used to relieve sinus congestion and pressure. Phenylephrine will relieve symptoms but will not treat the cause of the symptoms or speed recovery. Phenylephrine is in a class of medications called nasal decongestants. It works by reducing swelling of the blood vessels in the nasal passages. How should this medicine be used? Phenylephrine comes as a tablet, a liquid, or a dissolving strip to take by mouth. It is usually taken every 4 hours as needed. Follow the directions on your prescription label or the package label carefully, and ask your doctor or pharmacist to explain any part you do not understand. Take phenylephrine exactly as directed. Do not take more or less of it or take it more often than prescribed by your doctor or directed on the label. Phenylephrine comes alone and in combination with other medications. Ask your doctor or pharmacist for advice on which product is best for your symptoms. Check nonprescription cough and cold product labels carefully before using two or more products at the same time. These products may contain the same active ingredient(s) and taking them together could cause you to receive an overdose. This is especially important if you will be giving cough and cold medications to a child. Nonprescription cough and cold combination products, including products that contain phenylephrine, can cause serious side effects or death in young children. Do not give these products to children younger than 4 years of age. If you give these products to children 4 to 11 years of age, use caution and follow the package directions carefully. If you are giving phenylephrine or a combination product that contains phenylephrine to a child, read the package label carefully to be sure that it is the right product for a child of that age. Do not give phenylephrine products that are made for adults to children. Before you give a phenylephrine product to a child, check the package label to find out how much medication the child should receive. Give the dose that matches the child's age on the chart. Ask the child's doctor if you don't know how much medication to give the child. If you are taking the liquid, do not use a household spoon to measure your dose. Use the measuring spoon or cup that came with the medication or use a spoon made especially for measuring medication. If your symptoms do not get better within 7 days or if you have a fever, stop taking phenylephrine and call your doctor. If you are taking the dissolving strips, place one strip on your tongue and allow it to dissolve. Other uses for this medicine This medication may be prescribed for other uses; ask your doctor or pharmacist for more information. What special precautions should I follow? Before taking phenylephrine, tell your doctor and pharmacist if you are allergic to phenylephrine, any other medications, or any of the ingredients in phenylephrine preparations. do not take phenylephrine if you are taking a monoamine oxidase (MAO) inhibitor, such as isocarboxazid (Marplan), phenelzine (Nardil), selegiline (Eldepryl, Emsam, Zelapar), and tranylcypromine (Parnate), or if you have stopped taking one of these medications within the past 2 weeks. tell your doctor and pharmacist what other prescription and nonprescription medications, vitamins, nutritional supplements, and herbal products you are taking or plan to take. tell your doctor if you have or have ever had high blood pressure, diabetes, trouble urinating because of an enlarged prostate gland, or thyroid or heart disease. tell your doctor if you are pregnant, plan to become pregnant, or are breast-feeding. If you become pregnant while taking phenylephrine, call your doctor. if you are having surgery, including dental surgery, tell the doctor or dentist that you are taking phenylephrine. if you have phenylketonuria (PKU, an inherited condition in which a special diet must be followed to prevent damage to your brain that can cause severe intellectual disability), you should know that some phenylephrine products may be sweetened with aspartame, a source of phenylalanine. What special dietary instructions should I follow? Unless your doctor tells you otherwise, continue your normal diet. What should I do if I forget a dose? This medication is usually taken as needed. If your doctor has told you to take phenylephrine regularly, take the missed dose as soon as you remember it. However, if it is almost time for the next dose, skip the missed dose and continue your regular dosing schedule. Do not take a double dose to make up for a missed one. What side effects can this medication cause? Phenylephrine may cause side effects. Some side effects can be serious. If you experience any of these symptoms, stop using phenylephrine and call your doctor: nervousness dizziness sleeplessness Phenylephrine may cause other side effects. Call your doctor if you have any unusual problems while taking this medication. If you experience a serious side effect, you or your doctor may send a report to the Food and Drug Administration's (FDA) MedWatch Adverse Event Reporting program online ( http://www.fda.gov/Safety/MedWatch ) or by phone (1-800-332-1088). What should I know about storage and disposal of this medication? Keep this medication in the container it came in, tightly closed, and out of reach of children. Store it at room temperature and away from excess heat and moisture (not in the bathroom). It is important to keep all medication out of sight and reach of children as many containers (such as weekly pill minders and those for eye drops, creams, patches, and inhalers) are not child-resistant and young children can open them easily. To protect young children from poisoning, always lock safety caps and immediately place the medication in a safe location – one that is up and away and out of their sight and reach. http://www.upandaway.org Unneeded medications should be disposed of in special ways to ensure that pets, children, and other people cannot consume them. However, you should not flush this medication down the toilet. Instead, the best way to dispose of your medication is through a medicine take-back program. Talk to your pharmacist or contact your local garbage/recycling department to learn about take-back programs in your community. See the FDA's Safe Disposal of Medicines website ( http://goo.gl/c4Rm4p ) for more information if you do not have access to a take-back program. In case of emergency/overdose In case of overdose, call the poison control helpline at 1-800-222-1222. Information is also available online at https://www.poisonhelp.org/help . If the victim has collapsed, had a seizure, has trouble breathing, or can't be awakened, immediately call emergency services at 911. What other information should I know? Ask your pharmacist any questions you have about phenylephrine. It is important for you to keep a written list of all of the prescription and nonprescription (over-the-counter) medicines you are taking, as well as any products such as vitamins, minerals, or other dietary supplements. You should bring this list with you each time you visit a doctor or if you are admitted to a hospital. It is also important information to carry with you in case of emergencies. Brand names Children's Sudafed PE Nasal Decongestant ® Lusonal ® § PediaCare Children's Decongestant ® Sudafed PE Congestion ® Suphedrin PE ®

[ Pseudoephedrine pronounced as (soo doe e fed' rin)  Pseudoephedrine is used to relieve nasal congestion caused by colds, allergies, and hay fever. It is also used to temporarily relieve sinus congestion and pressure. Pseudoephedrine will relieve symptoms but will not treat the cause of the symptoms or speed recovery. Pseudoephedrine is in a class of medications called nasal decongestants. It works by causing narrowing of the blood vessels in the nasal passages. How should this medicine be used? Pseudoephedrine comes as a regular tablet, a 12-hour extended-release (long-acting) tablet, a 24-hour extended-release tablet, and a solution (liquid) to be taken by mouth. The regular tablets and liquid are usually taken every 4 to 6 hours. The 12-hour extended-release tablets usually are taken every 12 hours, and you should not take more than two doses in a 24-hour period. The 24-hour extended-release tablets usually are taken once a day, and you should not take more than one dose in a 24-hour period. To help prevent trouble sleeping, take the last dose of the day several hours before bedtime. Follow the directions on the package label or on your prescription label carefully, and ask your doctor or pharmacist to explain any part you do not understand. Take pseudoephedrine exactly as directed. Do not take more or less of it or take it more often than prescribed by your doctor or directed on the label. Pseudoephedrine comes alone and in combination with other medications. Ask your doctor or pharmacist for advice on which product is best for your symptoms. Check nonprescription cough and cold product labels carefully before using 2 or more products at the same time. These products may contain the same active ingredient(s) and taking them together could cause you to receive an overdose. This is especially important if you will be giving cough and cold medications to a child. Nonprescription cough and cold combination products, including products that contain pseudoephedrine, can cause serious side effects or death in young children. Do not give nonprescription pseudoephedrine products to children younger than 4 years of age. If you give these products to children 4-11 years of age, use caution and follow the package directions carefully. Do not give pseudoephedrine extended-release tablets to children younger than 12 years of age. If you are giving pseudoephedrine or a combination product that contains pseudoephedrine to a child, read the package label carefully to be sure that it is the right product for a child of that age. Do not give pseudoephedrine products that are made for adults to children. Before you give a pseudoephedrine product to a child, check the package label to find out how much medication the child should receive. Give the dose that matches the child's age on the chart. Ask the child's doctor if you don't know how much medication to give the child. If you are taking the liquid, do not use a household spoon to measure your dose. Use the measuring spoon or cup that came with the medication or use a spoon made especially for measuring medication. If your symptoms do not get better within 7 days or if you have a fever, stop taking pseudoephedrine and call your doctor. Swallow the extended-release tablets whole; do not break, crush, or chew them. Other uses for this medicine This medication is also sometimes used to prevent ear pain and blockage caused by pressure changes during air travel or underwater diving. Talk to your doctor or pharmacist for more information. This medication is sometimes prescribed for other uses; ask your doctor or pharmacist for more information. What special precautions should I follow? Before taking pseudoephedrine, tell your doctor and pharmacist if you are allergic to pseudoephedrine, any other medications, or any of the inactive ingredients in the pseudoephedrine product you plan to take. Check the package label for a list of the ingredients. do not take pseudoephedrine if you are taking a monoamine oxidase (MAO) inhibitor such as isocarboxazid (Marplan), phenelzine (Nardil), selegiline (Eldepryl, Emsam, Zelapar), and tranylcypromine (Parnate), or if you have stopped taking one of these medications within the past 2 weeks. tell your doctor and pharmacist what prescription and nonprescription medications, vitamins, nutritional supplements, and herbal products you are taking or plan to take. Be sure to mention medications for diet or appetite control, asthma, colds, or high blood pressure. tell your doctor if you have or have ever had high blood pressure, glaucoma (a condition in which increased pressure in the eye can lead to gradual loss of vision), diabetes, difficulty urinating (due to an enlarged prostate gland), or thyroid or heart disease. If you plan to take the 24-hour extended-release tablets, tell your doctor if you have had a narrowing or blockage of your digestive system. tell your doctor if you are pregnant, plan to become pregnant, or are breast-feeding. If you become pregnant while taking pseudoephedrine, call your doctor. if you are having surgery, including dental surgery, tell the doctor or dentist that you are taking pseudoephedrine. What special dietary instructions should I follow? Foods and drinks that contain large amounts of caffeine can make the side effects of pseudoephedrine worse. What should I do if I forget a dose? This medication is usually taken as needed. If your doctor has told you to take pseudoephedrine regularly, take the missed dose as soon as you remember it. However, if it is almost time for the next dose, skip the missed dose and continue your regular dosing schedule. Do not take a double dose to make up for a missed one. What side effects can this medication cause? Pseudoephedrine may cause side effects. Tell your doctor if any of these symptoms are severe or do not go away: restlessness nausea vomiting weakness headache Some side effects can be serious. If you experience any of the following symptoms, call your doctor immediately: nervousness dizziness difficulty sleeping stomach pain difficulty breathing fast, pounding, or irregular heartbeat Pseudoephedrine may cause other side effects. Call your doctor if you have any unusual problems while you are taking this medication. If you experience a serious side effect, you or your doctor may send a report to the Food and Drug Administration's (FDA) MedWatch Adverse Event Reporting program online ( http://www.fda.gov/Safety/MedWatch ) or by phone (1-800-332-1088). What should I know about storage and disposal of this medication? Keep this medication in the container it came in, tightly closed, and out of reach of children. Store it at room temperature and away from excess heat and moisture (not in the bathroom). Unneeded medications should be disposed of in special ways to ensure that pets, children, and other people cannot consume them. However, you should not flush this medication down the toilet. Instead, the best way to dispose of your medication is through a medicine take-back program. Talk to your pharmacist or contact your local garbage/recycling department to learn about take-back programs in your community. See the FDA's Safe Disposal of Medicines website ( http://goo.gl/c4Rm4p ) for more information if you do not have access to a take-back program. It is important to keep all medication out of sight and reach of children as many containers (such as weekly pill minders and those for eye drops, creams, patches, and inhalers) are not child-resistant and young children can open them easily. To protect young children from poisoning, always lock safety caps and immediately place the medication in a safe location – one that is up and away and out of their sight and reach. http://www.upandaway.org In case of emergency/overdose In case of overdose, call the poison control helpline at 1-800-222-1222. Information is also available online at https://www.poisonhelp.org/help . If the victim has collapsed, had a seizure, has trouble breathing, or can't be awakened, immediately call emergency services at 911. What other information should I know? If you are taking the 24-hour extended-release tablets, you may notice something that looks like a tablet in your stool. This is just the empty tablet shell, and this does not mean that you did not get your complete dose of medication. Ask your pharmacist any questions you have about pseudoephedrine. It is important for you to keep a written list of all of the prescription and nonprescription (over-the-counter) medicines you are taking, as well as any products such as vitamins, minerals, or other dietary supplements. You should bring this list with you each time you visit a doctor or if you are admitted to a hospital. It is also important information to carry with you in case of emergencies. Brand names Afrinol ® ¶ Cenafed ® ¶ Children's Sudafed Nasal Decongestant ® Congestaclear ® ¶ Efidac ® ¶ Myfedrine ® ¶ Pseudocot ® ¶ Ridafed ® ¶ Silfedrine ® Sudafed 12/24 Hour ® Sudafed Congestion ® Sudodrin ® ¶ SudoGest ® Sudrine ® ¶ Superfed ® ¶ Suphedrin ® Allegra-D® (as a combination product containing Fexofenadine, Pseudoephedrine)

[ Phenylephrine pronounced as (fen il ef' rin)  Phenylephrine is used to relieve nasal discomfort caused by colds, allergies, and hay fever. It is also used to relieve sinus congestion and pressure. Phenylephrine will relieve symptoms but will not treat the cause of the symptoms or speed recovery. Phenylephrine is in a class of medications called nasal decongestants. It works by reducing swelling of the blood vessels in the nasal passages. How should this medicine be used? Phenylephrine comes as a tablet, a liquid, or a dissolving strip to take by mouth. It is usually taken every 4 hours as needed. Follow the directions on your prescription label or the package label carefully, and ask your doctor or pharmacist to explain any part you do not understand. Take phenylephrine exactly as directed. Do not take more or less of it or take it more often than prescribed by your doctor or directed on the label. Phenylephrine comes alone and in combination with other medications. Ask your doctor or pharmacist for advice on which product is best for your symptoms. Check nonprescription cough and cold product labels carefully before using two or more products at the same time. These products may contain the same active ingredient(s) and taking them together could cause you to receive an overdose. This is especially important if you will be giving cough and cold medications to a child. Nonprescription cough and cold combination products, including products that contain phenylephrine, can cause serious side effects or death in young children. Do not give these products to children younger than 4 years of age. If you give these products to children 4 to 11 years of age, use caution and follow the package directions carefully. If you are giving phenylephrine or a combination product that contains phenylephrine to a child, read the package label carefully to be sure that it is the right product for a child of that age. Do not give phenylephrine products that are made for adults to children. Before you give a phenylephrine product to a child, check the package label to find out how much medication the child should receive. Give the dose that matches the child's age on the chart. Ask the child's doctor if you don't know how much medication to give the child. If you are taking the liquid, do not use a household spoon to measure your dose. Use the measuring spoon or cup that came with the medication or use a spoon made especially for measuring medication. If your symptoms do not get better within 7 days or if you have a fever, stop taking phenylephrine and call your doctor. If you are taking the dissolving strips, place one strip on your tongue and allow it to dissolve. Other uses for this medicine This medication may be prescribed for other uses; ask your doctor or pharmacist for more information. What special precautions should I follow? Before taking phenylephrine, tell your doctor and pharmacist if you are allergic to phenylephrine, any other medications, or any of the ingredients in phenylephrine preparations. do not take phenylephrine if you are taking a monoamine oxidase (MAO) inhibitor, such as isocarboxazid (Marplan), phenelzine (Nardil), selegiline (Eldepryl, Emsam, Zelapar), and tranylcypromine (Parnate), or if you have stopped taking one of these medications within the past 2 weeks. tell your doctor and pharmacist what other prescription and nonprescription medications, vitamins, nutritional supplements, and herbal products you are taking or plan to take. tell your doctor if you have or have ever had high blood pressure, diabetes, trouble urinating because of an enlarged prostate gland, or thyroid or heart disease. tell your doctor if you are pregnant, plan to become pregnant, or are breast-feeding. If you become pregnant while taking phenylephrine, call your doctor. if you are having surgery, including dental surgery, tell the doctor or dentist that you are taking phenylephrine. if you have phenylketonuria (PKU, an inherited condition in which a special diet must be followed to prevent damage to your brain that can cause severe intellectual disability), you should know that some phenylephrine products may be sweetened with aspartame, a source of phenylalanine. What special dietary instructions should I follow? Unless your doctor tells you otherwise, continue your normal diet. What should I do if I forget a dose? This medication is usually taken as needed. If your doctor has told you to take phenylephrine regularly, take the missed dose as soon as you remember it. However, if it is almost time for the next dose, skip the missed dose and continue your regular dosing schedule. Do not take a double dose to make up for a missed one. What side effects can this medication cause? Phenylephrine may cause side effects. Some side effects can be serious. If you experience any of these symptoms, stop using phenylephrine and call your doctor: nervousness dizziness sleeplessness Phenylephrine may cause other side effects. Call your doctor if you have any unusual problems while taking this medication. If you experience a serious side effect, you or your doctor may send a report to the Food and Drug Administration's (FDA) MedWatch Adverse Event Reporting program online ( http://www.fda.gov/Safety/MedWatch ) or by phone (1-800-332-1088). What should I know about storage and disposal of this medication? Keep this medication in the container it came in, tightly closed, and out of reach of children. Store it at room temperature and away from excess heat and moisture (not in the bathroom). It is important to keep all medication out of sight and reach of children as many containers (such as weekly pill minders and those for eye drops, creams, patches, and inhalers) are not child-resistant and young children can open them easily. To protect young children from poisoning, always lock safety caps and immediately place the medication in a safe location – one that is up and away and out of their sight and reach. http://www.upandaway.org Unneeded medications should be disposed of in special ways to ensure that pets, children, and other people cannot consume them. However, you should not flush this medication down the toilet. Instead, the best way to dispose of your medication is through a medicine take-back program. Talk to your pharmacist or contact your local garbage/recycling department to learn about take-back programs in your community. See the FDA's Safe Disposal of Medicines website ( http://goo.gl/c4Rm4p ) for more information if you do not have access to a take-back program. In case of emergency/overdose In case of overdose, call the poison control helpline at 1-800-222-1222. Information is also available online at https://www.poisonhelp.org/help . If the victim has collapsed, had a seizure, has trouble breathing, or can't be awakened, immediately call emergency services at 911. What other information should I know? Ask your pharmacist any questions you have about phenylephrine. It is important for you to keep a written list of all of the prescription and nonprescription (over-the-counter) medicines you are taking, as well as any products such as vitamins, minerals, or other dietary supplements. You should bring this list with you each time you visit a doctor or if you are admitted to a hospital. It is also important information to carry with you in case of emergencies. Brand names Children's Sudafed PE Nasal Decongestant ® Lusonal ® § PediaCare Children's Decongestant ® Sudafed PE Congestion ® Suphedrin PE ®



[ Quinapril pronounced as (kwin' a pril) To use the sharing features on this page, please enable JavaScript. Why is this medication prescribed? How should this medicine be used? Other uses for this medicine What special precautions should I follow? What special dietary instructions should I follow? What should I do if I forget a dose? What side effects can this medication cause? What should I know about storage and disposal of this medication? In case of emergency/overdose What other information should I know? Brand names IMPORTANT WARNING: Do not take quinapril if you are pregnant. If you become pregnant while taking quinapril, call your doctor immediately. Quinapril may harm the fetus. Why is this medication prescribed? Quinapril is used alone or in combination with other medications to treat high blood pressure. It is used in combination with other medications to treat heart failure. Quinapril is in a class of medications called angiotensin-converting enzyme (ACE) inhibitors. It works by decreasing certain chemicals that tighten the blood vessels, so blood flows more smoothly and the heart can pump blood more efficiently. High blood pressure is a common condition and when not treated, can cause damage to the brain, heart, blood vessels, kidneys, and other parts of the body. Damage to these organs may cause heart disease, a heart attack, heart failure, stroke, kidney failure, loss of vision, and other problems. In addition to taking medication, making lifestyle changes will also help to control your blood pressure. These changes include eating a diet that is low in fat and salt, maintaining a healthy weight, exercising at least 30 minutes most days, not smoking, and using alcohol in moderation. How should this medicine be used? Quinapril comes as a tablet to take by mouth. It is usually taken once or twice a day. To help you remember to take quinapril, take it around the same time(s) every day. Follow the directions on your prescription label carefully, and ask your doctor or pharmacist to explain any part you do not understand. Take quinapril exactly as directed. Do not take more or less of it or take it more often than prescribed by your doctor. Your doctor will probably start you on a low dose of quinapril and gradually increase your dose, not more than once every 1 or 2 weeks. Quinapril controls high blood pressure and heart failure but does not cure them. Continue to take quinapril even if you feel well. Do not stop taking quinapril without talking to your doctor. Other uses for this medicine This medication may be prescribed for other uses; ask your doctor or pharmacist for more information. What special precautions should I follow? Before taking quinapril, tell your doctor and pharmacist if you are allergic to quinapril; other ACE inhibitors such as benazepril (Lotensin, in Lotrel), captopril (Capoten), enalapril (Vasotec, in Vaseretic), fosinopril (Monopril), lisinopril (in Prinzide, in Zestoretic), moexipril (Univasc, in Uniretic), perindopril (Aceon), ramipril (Altace), and trandolapril (Mavik, in Tarka); any other medications; or any ingredients in quinapril tablets. Ask your pharmacist for a list of the ingredients. tell your doctor or pharmacist if you are taking valsartan and sacubitril (Entresto) or if you have stopped taking it within the last 36 hours. Your doctor will probably tell you not to take quinapril, if you are also taking valsartan and sacubitril. Also, tell your doctor if you have diabetes and you are taking aliskiren (Tekturna, in Amturnide, Tekamlo, Tekturna HCT). Your doctor will probably tell you not to take quinapril if you have diabetes and you are also taking aliskiren. tell your doctor and pharmacist what prescription and nonprescription medications, vitamins, nutritional supplements, and herbal products you are taking. Be sure to mention any of the following: aspirin and other nonsteroidal anti-inflammatory medications (NSAIDs) such as indomethacin (Indocin); diuretics ('water pills'); lithium (Lithobid); potassium supplements; and tetracycline (Achromycin V, in Pylera). Your doctor may need to change the doses of your medications or monitor you carefully for side effects. tell your doctor if you have ever had swelling of the face, throat, tongue, lips, eyes, hands, feet, ankles, or lower legs while taking quinapril. Your doctor will probably tell you not to take quinapril. tell your doctor if you have or have ever had heart, liver, or kidney disease; diabetes; lupus; or scleroderma (a condition in which extra tissue grows on the skin and some organs). tell your doctor if you are breastfeeding. if you are having surgery, including dental surgery, tell the doctor or dentist that you are taking quinapril. you should know that diarrhea, vomiting, not drinking enough fluids, and sweating a lot can cause a drop in blood pressure, which may cause lightheadedness and fainting. What special dietary instructions should I follow? Talk to your doctor before using salt substitutes containing potassium. If your doctor prescribes a low-salt or low-sodium diet, follow these directions carefully. What should I do if I forget a dose? Take the missed dose as soon as you remember it. However, if it is almost time for the next dose, skip the missed dose and continue your regular dosing schedule. Do not take a double dose to make up for a missed one. What side effects can this medication cause? Quinapril may cause side effects. Tell your doctor if any of these symptoms are severe or do not go away: dizziness excessive tiredness cough upset stomach vomiting Some side effects can be serious. If you experience any of these symptoms, call your doctor immediately: swelling of the face, throat, tongue, lips, eyes, hands, feet, ankles, or lower legs hoarseness difficulty breathing or swallowing yellowing of the skin or eyes fever, sore throat, chills, and other signs of infection chest pain lightheadedness fainting Quinapril may cause other side effects. Call your doctor if you have any unusual problems while taking this medication. If you experience a serious side effect, you or your doctor may send a report to the Food and Drug Administration's (FDA) MedWatch Adverse Event Reporting program online ( http://www.fda.gov/Safety/MedWatch ) or by phone (1-800-332-1088). What should I know about storage and disposal of this medication? Keep this medication in the container it came in, tightly closed, and out of reach of children. Store it at room temperature and away from light and excess heat and moisture (not in the bathroom). Unneeded medications should be disposed of in special ways to ensure that pets, children, and other people cannot consume them. However, you should not flush this medication down the toilet. Instead, the best way to dispose of your medication is through a medicine take-back program. Talk to your pharmacist or contact your local garbage/recycling department to learn about take-back programs in your community. See the FDA's Safe Disposal of Medicines website ( http://goo.gl/c4Rm4p ) for more information if you do not have access to a take-back program. It is important to keep all medication out of sight and reach of children as many containers (such as weekly pill minders and those for eye drops, creams, patches, and inhalers) are not child-resistant and young children can open them easily. To protect young children from poisoning, always lock safety caps and immediately place the medication in a safe location – one that is up and away and out of their sight and reach. http://www.upandaway.org In case of emergency/overdose In case of overdose, call the poison control helpline at 1-800-222-1222. Information is also available online at https://www.poisonhelp.org/help . If the victim has collapsed, had a seizure, has trouble breathing, or can't be awakened, immediately call emergency services at 911. Symptoms of overdose may include the following: lightheadedness fainting What other information should I know? Keep all appointments with your doctor and the laboratory. Your blood pressure should be checked regularly to determine your response to quinapril. Your doctor may order certain lab tests to check your body's response to quinapril. Do not let anyone else take your medication. Ask your pharmacist any questions you have about refilling your prescription. It is important for you to keep a written list of all of the prescription and nonprescription (over-the-counter) medicines you are taking, as well as any products such as vitamins, minerals, or other dietary supplements. You should bring this list with you each time you visit a doctor or if you are admitted to a hospital. It is also important information to carry with you in case of emergencies. Brand names Accupril ®



[ Hydrochlorothiazide pronounced as (hye'' droe klor'' oh thye' a zide)  Hydrochlorothiazide is used alone or in combination with other medications to treat high blood pressure. Hydrochlorothiazide is used to treat edema (fluid retention; excess fluid held in body tissues) caused by various medical problems, including heart, kidney, and liver disease and to treat edema caused by using certain medications including estrogen and corticosteroids. Hydrochlorothiazide is in a class of medications called diuretics ('water pills'). It works by causing the kidneys to get rid of unneeded water and salt from the body into the urine. High blood pressure is a common condition and when not treated, can cause damage to the brain, heart, blood vessels, kidneys and other parts of the body. Damage to these organs may cause heart disease, a heart attack, heart failure, stroke, kidney failure, loss of vision, and other problems. In addition to taking medication, making lifestyle changes will also help to control your blood pressure. These changes include eating a diet that is low in fat and salt, maintaining a healthy weight, exercising at least 30 minutes most days, not smoking, and using alcohol in moderation. How should this medicine be used? Hydrochlorothiazide comes as a tablet, capsule, and solution (liquid) to take by mouth. It usually is taken once or twice a day. When used to treat edema, hydrochlorothiazide may be taken daily or only on certain days of the week. Follow the directions on your prescription label carefully, and ask your doctor or pharmacist to explain any part you do not understand. Take hydrochlorothiazide exactly as directed. Do not take more or less of it or take it more often than prescribed by your doctor. Hydrochlorothiazide controls high blood pressure but does not cure it. Continue to take hydrochlorothiazide even if you feel well. Do not stop taking hydrochlorothiazide without talking to your doctor. Other uses for this medicine Hydrochlorothiazide may also be used to treat patients with diabetes insipidus and to prevent kidney stones in patients with high levels of calcium in their blood. Talk to your doctor about the possible risks of using this medicine for your condition. This medicine is sometimes prescribed for other uses; ask your doctor or pharmacist for more information. What special precautions should I follow? Before taking hydrochlorothiazide, tell your doctor and pharmacist if you are allergic to hydrochlorothiazide, 'sulfa drugs', penicillin, or any other drugs. tell your doctor and pharmacist what other prescription and nonprescription medications, vitamins, nutritional supplements, and herbal products you are taking or plan to take. Be sure to mention any of the following: barbiturates such as phenobarbital and secobarbital (Seconal); corticosteroids such as betamethasone (Celestone), budesonide (Entocort), cortisone (Cortone), dexamethasone (Decadron, Dexpak, Dexasone, others), fludrocortisone (Florinef), hydrocortisone (Cortef, Hydrocortone), methylprednisolone (Medrol, Meprolone, others), prednisolone (Prelone, others), prednisone (Deltasone, Meticorten, Sterapred, others), and triamcinolone (Aristocort, Azmacort); corticotropin (ACTH, H.P., Acthar Gel); insulin and oral medications for diabetes; lithium (Eskalith, Lithobid); medications for high blood pressure or pain; nonsteroidal anti-inflammatory drugs (NSAIDs) such as ibuprofen (Advil, Motrin, others) and naproxen (Aleve, Naprosyn, others). Your doctor may need to change the doses of your medications or monitor you carefully for side effects. if you are taking cholestyramine or colestipol, take them 1 hour before or 4 hours after taking hydrochlorothiazide. tell your doctor if you have kidney disease. Your doctor may tell you not to take hydrochlorothiazide. tell your doctor if you have or have ever had diabetes, asthma, gout, systemic lupus erythematosus (SLE, a chronic inflammatory condition), high cholesterol, or kidney or liver disease. tell your doctor if you are pregnant, plan to become pregnant, or are breastfeeding. If you become pregnant while taking hydrochlorothiazide, call your doctor immediately. plan to avoid unnecessary or prolonged exposure to sunlight and to wear protective clothing, sunglasses, and sunscreen. Hydrochlorothiazide may make your skin sensitive to sunlight and increase your risk of a certain types of skin cancer. Your doctor will check your skin for skin cancers during your treatment with hydrochlorothiazide. Call your doctor if you notice any new skin changes or growths. you should know that hydrochlorothiazide may cause dizziness, lightheadedness, and fainting when you get up too quickly from a lying position. This is more common when you first start taking hydrochlorothiazide. To avoid this problem, get out of bed slowly, resting your feet on the floor for a few minutes before standing up. Alcohol can add to these side effects. What special dietary instructions should I follow? If your doctor prescribes a low-salt or low-sodium diet, or to eat or drink increased amounts of potassium-rich foods (e.g., bananas, prunes, raisins, and orange juice) in your diet, follow these instructions carefully. What should I do if I forget a dose? Take the missed dose as soon as you remember it. However, if it is almost time for your next dose, skip the missed dose and continue your regular dosing schedule. Do not take a double dose to make up for a missed one. What side effects can this medication cause? Tell your doctor if any of these symptoms are severe or do not go away: frequent urination diarrhea loss of appetite headache hair loss If you experience any of the following symptoms, call your doctor immediately or get emergency medical treatment: dry mouth; thirst; nausea; vomiting; weakness, tiredness; drowsiness; restlessness; confusion; muscle weakness, pain, or cramps; fast heartbeat and other signs of dehydration and electrolyte imbalance blisters or peeling skin hives rash itching difficulty breathing or swallowing fever, sore throat, chills, and other signs of infection unusual bleeding or bruising ongoing pain that begins in the stomach area, but may spread to the back joint pain or swelling changes in vision, eye pain, or swelling or redness in or around the eye If you experience a serious side effect, you or your doctor may send a report to the Food and Drug Administration's (FDA) MedWatch Adverse Event Reporting program online ( http://www.fda.gov/Safety/MedWatch ) or by phone (1-800-332-1088). What should I know about storage and disposal of this medication? Keep this medicine in the container it came in, tightly closed, and out of reach of children. Store it at room temperature and away from excess heat and moisture (not in the bathroom). Do not allow the liquid or capsules to freeze. It is important to keep all medication out of sight and reach of children as many containers (such as weekly pill minders and those for eye drops, creams, patches, and inhalers) are not child-resistant and young children can open them easily. To protect young children from poisoning, always lock safety caps and immediately place the medication in a safe location – one that is up and away and out of their sight and reach. http://www.upandaway.org Unneeded medications should be disposed of in special ways to ensure that pets, children, and other people cannot consume them. However, you should not flush this medication down the toilet. Instead, the best way to dispose of your medication is through a medicine take-back program. Talk to your pharmacist or contact your local garbage/recycling department to learn about take-back programs in your community. See the FDA's Safe Disposal of Medicines website ( http://goo.gl/c4Rm4p ) for more information if you do not have access to a take-back program. In case of emergency/overdose In case of overdose, call the poison control helpline at 1-800-222-1222. Information is also available online at https://www.poisonhelp.org/help . If the victim has collapsed, had a seizure, has trouble breathing, or can't be awakened, immediately call emergency services at 911. What other information should I know? Keep all appointments with your doctor and the laboratory. Your blood pressure should be checked regularly, and blood tests should be done occasionally. Before having any laboratory test, tell your doctor and the laboratory personnel that you are taking hydrochlorothiazide. Do not let anyone else take your medicine. Ask your pharmacist any questions you have about refilling your prescription. It is important for you to keep a written list of all of the prescription and nonprescription (over-the-counter) medicines you are taking, as well as any products such as vitamins, minerals, or other dietary supplements. You should bring this list with you each time you visit a doctor or if you are admitted to a hospital. It is also important information to carry with you in case of emergencies. Brand names Esidrix ® ¶ Hydrodiuril ® ¶ Microzide ® Oretic ® Zide ® ¶

[ Quinapril pronounced as (kwin' a pril) To use the sharing features on this page, please enable JavaScript. Why is this medication prescribed? How should this medicine be used? Other uses for this medicine What special precautions should I follow? What special dietary instructions should I follow? What should I do if I forget a dose? What side effects can this medication cause? What should I know about storage and disposal of this medication? In case of emergency/overdose What other information should I know? Brand names IMPORTANT WARNING: Do not take quinapril if you are pregnant. If you become pregnant while taking quinapril, call your doctor immediately. Quinapril may harm the fetus. Why is this medication prescribed? Quinapril is used alone or in combination with other medications to treat high blood pressure. It is used in combination with other medications to treat heart failure. Quinapril is in a class of medications called angiotensin-converting enzyme (ACE) inhibitors. It works by decreasing certain chemicals that tighten the blood vessels, so blood flows more smoothly and the heart can pump blood more efficiently. High blood pressure is a common condition and when not treated, can cause damage to the brain, heart, blood vessels, kidneys, and other parts of the body. Damage to these organs may cause heart disease, a heart attack, heart failure, stroke, kidney failure, loss of vision, and other problems. In addition to taking medication, making lifestyle changes will also help to control your blood pressure. These changes include eating a diet that is low in fat and salt, maintaining a healthy weight, exercising at least 30 minutes most days, not smoking, and using alcohol in moderation. How should this medicine be used? Quinapril comes as a tablet to take by mouth. It is usually taken once or twice a day. To help you remember to take quinapril, take it around the same time(s) every day. Follow the directions on your prescription label carefully, and ask your doctor or pharmacist to explain any part you do not understand. Take quinapril exactly as directed. Do not take more or less of it or take it more often than prescribed by your doctor. Your doctor will probably start you on a low dose of quinapril and gradually increase your dose, not more than once every 1 or 2 weeks. Quinapril controls high blood pressure and heart failure but does not cure them. Continue to take quinapril even if you feel well. Do not stop taking quinapril without talking to your doctor. Other uses for this medicine This medication may be prescribed for other uses; ask your doctor or pharmacist for more information. What special precautions should I follow? Before taking quinapril, tell your doctor and pharmacist if you are allergic to quinapril; other ACE inhibitors such as benazepril (Lotensin, in Lotrel), captopril (Capoten), enalapril (Vasotec, in Vaseretic), fosinopril (Monopril), lisinopril (in Prinzide, in Zestoretic), moexipril (Univasc, in Uniretic), perindopril (Aceon), ramipril (Altace), and trandolapril (Mavik, in Tarka); any other medications; or any ingredients in quinapril tablets. Ask your pharmacist for a list of the ingredients. tell your doctor or pharmacist if you are taking valsartan and sacubitril (Entresto) or if you have stopped taking it within the last 36 hours. Your doctor will probably tell you not to take quinapril, if you are also taking valsartan and sacubitril. Also, tell your doctor if you have diabetes and you are taking aliskiren (Tekturna, in Amturnide, Tekamlo, Tekturna HCT). Your doctor will probably tell you not to take quinapril if you have diabetes and you are also taking aliskiren. tell your doctor and pharmacist what prescription and nonprescription medications, vitamins, nutritional supplements, and herbal products you are taking. Be sure to mention any of the following: aspirin and other nonsteroidal anti-inflammatory medications (NSAIDs) such as indomethacin (Indocin); diuretics ('water pills'); lithium (Lithobid); potassium supplements; and tetracycline (Achromycin V, in Pylera). Your doctor may need to change the doses of your medications or monitor you carefully for side effects. tell your doctor if you have ever had swelling of the face, throat, tongue, lips, eyes, hands, feet, ankles, or lower legs while taking quinapril. Your doctor will probably tell you not to take quinapril. tell your doctor if you have or have ever had heart, liver, or kidney disease; diabetes; lupus; or scleroderma (a condition in which extra tissue grows on the skin and some organs). tell your doctor if you are breastfeeding. if you are having surgery, including dental surgery, tell the doctor or dentist that you are taking quinapril. you should know that diarrhea, vomiting, not drinking enough fluids, and sweating a lot can cause a drop in blood pressure, which may cause lightheadedness and fainting. What special dietary instructions should I follow? Talk to your doctor before using salt substitutes containing potassium. If your doctor prescribes a low-salt or low-sodium diet, follow these directions carefully. What should I do if I forget a dose? Take the missed dose as soon as you remember it. However, if it is almost time for the next dose, skip the missed dose and continue your regular dosing schedule. Do not take a double dose to make up for a missed one. What side effects can this medication cause? Quinapril may cause side effects. Tell your doctor if any of these symptoms are severe or do not go away: dizziness excessive tiredness cough upset stomach vomiting Some side effects can be serious. If you experience any of these symptoms, call your doctor immediately: swelling of the face, throat, tongue, lips, eyes, hands, feet, ankles, or lower legs hoarseness difficulty breathing or swallowing yellowing of the skin or eyes fever, sore throat, chills, and other signs of infection chest pain lightheadedness fainting Quinapril may cause other side effects. Call your doctor if you have any unusual problems while taking this medication. If you experience a serious side effect, you or your doctor may send a report to the Food and Drug Administration's (FDA) MedWatch Adverse Event Reporting program online ( http://www.fda.gov/Safety/MedWatch ) or by phone (1-800-332-1088). What should I know about storage and disposal of this medication? Keep this medication in the container it came in, tightly closed, and out of reach of children. Store it at room temperature and away from light and excess heat and moisture (not in the bathroom). Unneeded medications should be disposed of in special ways to ensure that pets, children, and other people cannot consume them. However, you should not flush this medication down the toilet. Instead, the best way to dispose of your medication is through a medicine take-back program. Talk to your pharmacist or contact your local garbage/recycling department to learn about take-back programs in your community. See the FDA's Safe Disposal of Medicines website ( http://goo.gl/c4Rm4p ) for more information if you do not have access to a take-back program. It is important to keep all medication out of sight and reach of children as many containers (such as weekly pill minders and those for eye drops, creams, patches, and inhalers) are not child-resistant and young children can open them easily. To protect young children from poisoning, always lock safety caps and immediately place the medication in a safe location – one that is up and away and out of their sight and reach. http://www.upandaway.org In case of emergency/overdose In case of overdose, call the poison control helpline at 1-800-222-1222. Information is also available online at https://www.poisonhelp.org/help . If the victim has collapsed, had a seizure, has trouble breathing, or can't be awakened, immediately call emergency services at 911. Symptoms of overdose may include the following: lightheadedness fainting What other information should I know? Keep all appointments with your doctor and the laboratory. Your blood pressure should be checked regularly to determine your response to quinapril. Your doctor may order certain lab tests to check your body's response to quinapril. Do not let anyone else take your medication. Ask your pharmacist any questions you have about refilling your prescription. It is important for you to keep a written list of all of the prescription and nonprescription (over-the-counter) medicines you are taking, as well as any products such as vitamins, minerals, or other dietary supplements. You should bring this list with you each time you visit a doctor or if you are admitted to a hospital. It is also important information to carry with you in case of emergencies. Brand names Accupril ®









[ Acetaminophen pronounced as (a set a mee' noe fen) To use the sharing features on this page, please enable JavaScript. Why is this medication prescribed? How should this medicine be used? Other uses for this medicine What special precautions should I follow? What special dietary instructions should I follow? What should I do if I forget a dose? What side effects can this medication cause? What should I know about storage and disposal of this medication? In case of emergency/overdose What other information should I know? Brand names Other names IMPORTANT WARNING: Taking too much acetaminophen can cause liver damage, sometimes serious enough to require liver transplantation or cause death. You might accidentally take too much acetaminophen if you do not follow the directions on the prescription or package label carefully, or if you take more than one product that contains acetaminophen. To be sure that you take acetaminophen safely, you should not take more than one product that contains acetaminophen at a time. Read the labels of all the prescription and nonprescription medications you are taking to see if they contain acetaminophen. Be aware that abbreviations such as APAP, AC, Acetaminophen, Acetaminoph, Acetaminop, Acetamin, or Acetam. may be written on the label in place of the word acetaminophen. Ask your doctor or pharmacist if you don't know if a medication that you are taking contains acetaminophen. take acetaminophen exactly as directed on the prescription or package label. Do not take more acetaminophen or take it more often than directed, even if you still have fever or pain. Ask your doctor or pharmacist if you do not know how much medication to take or how often to take your medication. Call your doctor if you still have pain or fever after taking your medication as directed. be aware that you should not take more than 4000 mg of acetaminophen per day. If you need to take more than one product that contains acetaminophen, it may be difficult for you to calculate the total amount of acetaminophen you are taking. Ask your doctor or pharmacist to help you. tell your doctor if you have or have ever had liver disease. not take acetaminophen if you drink three or more alcoholic drinks every day. Talk to your doctor about the safe use of alcohol while you are taking acetaminophen. stop taking your medication and call your doctor right away if you think you have taken too much acetaminophen, even if you feel well. Talk to your pharmacist or doctor if you have questions about the safe use of acetaminophen or acetaminophen-containing products. Why is this medication prescribed? Acetaminophen is used to relieve mild to moderate pain from headaches, muscle aches, menstrual periods, colds and sore throats, toothaches, backaches, reactions to vaccinations (shots), and to reduce fever. Acetaminophen may also be used to relieve the pain of osteoarthritis (arthritis caused by the breakdown of the lining of the joints). Acetaminophen is in a class of medications called analgesics (pain relievers) and antipyretics (fever reducers). It works by changing the way the body senses pain and by cooling the body. How should this medicine be used? Acetaminophen comes as a tablet, chewable tablet, capsule, suspension or solution (liquid), extended-release (long-acting) tablet, and orally disintegrating tablet (tablet that dissolves quickly in the mouth), to take by mouth, with or without food. Acetaminophen is available without a prescription, but your doctor may prescribe acetaminophen to treat certain conditions. Follow the directions on the package or prescription label carefully, and ask your doctor or pharmacist to explain any part you do not understand. If you are giving acetaminophen to your child, read the package label carefully to make sure that it is the right product for the age of the child. Do not give children acetaminophen products that are made for adults. Some products for adults and older children may contain too much acetaminophen for a younger child. Check the package label to find out how much medication the child needs. If you know how much your child weighs, give the dose that matches that weight on the chart. If you don't know your child's weight, give the dose that matches your child's age. Ask your child's doctor if you don't know how much medication to give your child. Acetaminophen comes in combination with other medications to treat cough and cold symptoms. Ask your doctor or pharmacist for advice on which product is best for your symptoms. Check nonprescription cough and cold product labels carefully before using two or more products at the same time. These products may contain the same active ingredient(s) and taking them together could cause you to receive an overdose. This is especially important if you will be giving cough and cold medications to a child. Swallow the extended-release tablets whole; do not split, chew, crush, or dissolve them. Place the orally disintegrating tablet ('Meltaways') in your mouth and allow it to dissolve, or chew it before swallowing. Shake the suspension well before each use to mix the medication evenly. Always use the measuring cup or syringe provided by the manufacturer to measure each dose of the solution or suspension. Do not switch dosing devices between different products; always use the device that comes in the product packaging. Stop taking acetaminophen and call your doctor if your symptoms get worse, you develop new or unexpected symptoms, including redness or swelling, your pain lasts for more than 10 days, or your fever gets worse or lasts more than 3 days. Also stop giving acetaminophen to your child and call your child's doctor if your child develops new symptoms, including redness or swelling, or if your child's pain lasts for longer than 5 days, or if a fever gets worse or lasts longer than 3 days. Do not give acetaminophen to a child who has a sore throat that is severe or does not go away, or that occurs along with fever, headache, rash, nausea, or vomiting. Call the child's doctor right away, because these symptoms may be signs of a more serious condition. Other uses for this medicine Acetaminophen may also be used in combination with aspirin and caffeine to relieve the pain associated with migraine headache. This medication is sometimes prescribed for other uses; ask your doctor or pharmacist for more information. What special precautions should I follow? Before taking acetaminophen, tell your doctor and pharmacist if you are allergic to acetaminophen, any other medications, or any of the ingredients in the product. Ask your pharmacist or check the label on the package for a list of ingredients. tell your doctor and pharmacist what prescription and nonprescription medications, vitamins, nutritional supplements, or herbal products you are taking or plan to take while taking acetaminophen. Your doctor may need to change the doses of your medications or monitor you carefully for side effects. The following nonprescription products may interact with acetaminophen: medications for pain, coughs, fever, and colds. Be sure to let your doctor and pharmacist know that you are taking these medications before you start taking acetaminophen. Do not start any of these medications while taking acetaminophen without discussing with your healthcare provider. tell your doctor if you have ever developed a rash after taking acetaminophen. tell your doctor if you are pregnant, plan to become pregnant, or are breast-feeding. If you become pregnant while taking acetaminophen, call your doctor. if you drink three or more alcoholic beverages every day, do not take acetaminophen. Ask your doctor or pharmacist about the safe use of alcoholic beverages while taking acetaminophen. you should know that combination acetaminophen products for cough and colds that contain nasal decongestants, antihistamines, cough suppressants, and expectorants should not be used in children younger than 2 years of age. Use of these medications in young children can cause serious and life-threatening effects or death. In children 2 through 11 years of age, combination cough and cold products should be used carefully and only according to the directions on the label. if you have phenylketonuria (PKU, an inherited condition in which a special diet must be followed to prevent damage to your brain that can cause severe intellectual disability), you should know that some brands of acetaminophen chewable tablets may be sweetened with aspartame, a source of phenylalanine. What special dietary instructions should I follow? Unless your doctor tells you otherwise, continue your normal diet. What should I do if I forget a dose? This medication is usually taken as needed. If your doctor has told you to take acetaminophen regularly, take the missed dose as soon as you remember it. However, if it is almost time for the next dose, skip the missed dose and continue your regular dosing schedule. Do not take a double dose to make up for a missed one. What side effects can this medication cause? Acetaminophen may cause side effects. Some side effects can be serious. If you experience any of the following symptoms, stop taking acetaminophen and call your doctor immediately or get emergency medical attention: red, peeling or blistering skin rash hives itching swelling of the face, throat, tongue, lips, eyes, hands, feet, ankles, or lower legs hoarseness difficulty breathing or swallowing Acetaminophen may cause other side effects. Call your doctor if you have any unusual problems while you are taking this medication. If you experience a serious side effect, you or your doctor may send a report to the Food and Drug Administration's (FDA) MedWatch Adverse Event Reporting program online ( http://www.fda.gov/Safety/MedWatch ) or by phone (1-800-332-1088). What should I know about storage and disposal of this medication? Keep this medication in the container it came in, tightly closed, and out of reach of children. Store it at room temperature and away from excess heat and moisture (not in the bathroom). It is important to keep all medication out of sight and reach of children as many containers (such as weekly pill minders and those for eye drops, creams, patches, and inhalers) are not child-resistant and young children can open them easily. To protect young children from poisoning, always lock safety caps and immediately place the medication in a safe location – one that is up and away and out of their sight and reach. http://www.upandaway.org Unneeded medications should be disposed of in special ways to ensure that pets, children, and other people cannot consume them. However, you should not flush this medication down the toilet. Instead, the best way to dispose of your medication is through a medicine take-back program. Talk to your pharmacist or contact your local garbage/recycling department to learn about take-back programs in your community. See the FDA's Safe Disposal of Medicines website ( http://goo.gl/c4Rm4p ) for more information if you do not have access to a take-back program. In case of emergency/overdose In case of overdose, call the poison control helpline at 1-800-222-1222. Information is also available online at https://www.poisonhelp.org/help . If the victim has collapsed, had a seizure, has trouble breathing, or can't be awakened, immediately call emergency services at 911. If someone takes more than the recommended dose of acetaminophen, get medical help immediately, even if the person does not have any symptoms. Symptoms of overdose may include the following: nausea vomiting loss of appetite sweating extreme tiredness unusual bleeding or bruising pain in the upper right part of the stomach yellowing of the skin or eyes flu-like symptoms What other information should I know? Before having any laboratory test, tell your doctor and the laboratory personnel that you are taking acetaminophen. Ask your pharmacist any questions you have about acetaminophen. It is important for you to keep a written list of all of the prescription and nonprescription (over-the-counter) medicines you are taking, as well as any products such as vitamins, minerals, or other dietary supplements. You should bring this list with you each time you visit a doctor or if you are admitted to a hospital. It is also important information to carry with you in case of emergencies. Brand names Actamin ® Feverall ® Panadol ® Tempra Quicklets ® Tylenol ®

[ Acetaminophen and Codeine pronounced as (a set a mee' noe fen) (koe' deen) To use the sharing features on this page, please enable JavaScript. Why is this medication prescribed? How should this medicine be used? Other uses for this medicine What special precautions should I follow? What should I do if I forget a dose? What side effects can this medication cause? What should I know about storage and disposal of this medication? In case of emergency/overdose What other information should I know? Brand names Other names IMPORTANT WARNING: The combination of acetaminophen and codeine may be habit forming, especially with prolonged use. Take acetaminophen and codeine exactly as directed. Do not take more of it, take it more often, or take it in a different way than directed by your doctor. While taking acetaminophen and codeine, discuss with your health care provider your pain treatment goals, length of treatment, and other ways to manage your pain. Tell your doctor if you or anyone in your family drinks or has ever drunk large amounts of alcohol, uses or has ever used street drugs, or has overused prescription medications, or has had an overdose, or if you have or have ever had depression or another mental illness. There is a greater risk that you will overuse acetaminophen and codeine if you have or have ever had any of these conditions. Talk to your health care provider immediately and ask for guidance if you think that you have an opioid addiction or call the U.S. Substance Abuse and Mental Health Services Administration (SAMHSA) National Helpline at 1-800-662-HELP. The combination of acetaminophen and codeine may cause serious or life-threatening breathing problems, especially during the first 24 to 72 hours of your treatment and any time your dose is increased. Your doctor will monitor you carefully during your treatment. Tell your doctor if you have or have ever had slowed breathing or asthma. Your doctor will probably tell you not to take acetaminophen and codeine. Also tell your doctor if you have or have ever had lung disease such as chronic obstructive pulmonary disease (COPD; a group of diseases that affect the lungs and airways), a head injury, brain tumor, or any condition that increases the amount of pressure in your brain. The risk that you will develop breathing problems may be higher if you are an older adult or are weak or malnourished due to disease. If you experience any of the following symptoms, call your doctor immediately or get emergency medical treatment: slowed breathing, long pauses between breaths, or shortness of breath. When codeine-containing medication was used in children, serious and life-threatening breathing problems such as slow or difficulty breathing and deaths were reported. Acetaminophen and codeine should never be used to treat pain or cough in children younger than 12 years of age or to relieve pain after surgery to remove the tonsils and/or adenoids in children younger than 18 years of age. Acetaminophen and codeine should not be used in children 12 to 18 years of age who are obese or who have a neuromuscular disease (disease that affects the nerves that control voluntary muscles), a lung disease, or obstructive sleep apnea (condition in which the airway becomes blocked or narrow and breathing stops for short periods during sleep) as these conditions may increase their risk of breathing problems. Taking too much acetaminophen (found in this combination preparation) can cause liver damage, sometimes serious enough to require liver transplantation or cause death. You might accidentally take too much acetaminophen if you do not follow the directions on the prescription or package label carefully, or if you take more than one product that contains acetaminophen. Be aware that you should not take more than 4,000 mg of acetaminophen per day. Tell your doctor if you have or have ever had liver disease. If you need to take more than one product that contains acetaminophen, it may be difficult for you to calculate the total amount of acetaminophen you are taking. Ask your doctor or pharmacist to help you. Taking certain medications during your treatment with acetaminophen and codeine may increase the risk that you will experience breathing problems or other serious, life threatening breathing problems, sedation, or coma. Tell your doctor if you are taking or plan to take any of the following medications: certain antifungal medications including itraconazole (Onmel, Sporanox), ketoconazole, and voriconazole (Vfend); benzodiazepines such as alprazolam (Xanax), diazepam (Diastat, Valium), estazolam, flurazepam, lorazepam (Ativan), and triazolam (Halcion); carbamazepine (Carbatrol, Epitol, Equetro, Tegretol, Teril); erythromycin (Erytab, Erythrocin); certain medications for human immunodeficiency virus (HIV) including indinavir (Crixivan), nelfinavir (Viracept), and ritonavir (Norvir, in Kaletra); muscle relaxants; other pain medications; phenytoin (Dilantin, Phenytek); rifampin (Rifadin, Rimactane, in Rifamate); sedatives; sleeping pills; or tranquilizers. Your doctor may need to change the dosages of your medications and will monitor you carefully. If you take acetaminophen and codeine with any of these medications and you develop any of the following symptoms, call your doctor immediately or seek emergency medical care: unusual dizziness, lightheadedness, extreme sleepiness, slowed or difficult breathing, or unresponsiveness. Be sure that your caregiver or family members know which symptoms may be serious so they can call the doctor or emergency medical care if you are unable to seek treatment on your own. Drinking alcohol, taking prescription or nonprescription medications that contain alcohol, or using street drugs during your treatment with acetaminophen and codeine increases the risk that you will experience serious, life-threatening side effects. Do not drink alcohol, take prescription or nonprescription medications that contain alcohol, or use street drugs during your treatment. Tell your doctor if you are pregnant or plan to become pregnant. If you take acetaminophen and codeine regularly during your pregnancy, your baby may experience life-threatening withdrawal symptoms after birth. Tell your baby's doctor right away if your baby experiences any of the following symptoms: irritability, hyperactivity, abnormal sleep, high-pitched cry, uncontrollable shaking of a part of the body, vomiting, diarrhea, or failure to gain weight. Your doctor or pharmacist will give you the manufacturer's patient information sheet (Medication Guide) when you begin treatment with acetaminophen and codeine and each time you refill your prescription. Read the information carefully and ask your doctor or pharmacist if you have any questions. You can also visit the Food and Drug Administration (FDA) website ( http://www.fda.gov/Drugs/DrugSafety/ucm085729.htm ) or the manufacturer's website to obtain the Medication Guide. Why is this medication prescribed? The combination of acetaminophen and codeine is used to relieve mild to moderate pain. Acetaminophen is in a class of medications called analgesics (pain relievers) and antipyretics (fever reducers). It works by changing the way the body senses pain and by cooling the body. Codeine belongs to a class of medications called opiate (narcotic) analgesics and to a class of medications called antitussives. When codeine is used to treat pain, it works by changing the way the brain and nervous system respond to pain. When codeine is used to reduce coughing, it works by decreasing the activity in the part of the brain that causes coughing. How should this medicine be used? The combination of acetaminophen and codeine comes as a tablet, capsule, and liquid to take by mouth. It usually is taken every 4 hours as needed. Follow the directions on your prescription label carefully, and ask your doctor or pharmacist to explain any part you do not understand. Take acetaminophen and codeine exactly as directed. If you have taken acetaminophen and codeine for several weeks or longer, do not stop taking the medication without talking to your doctor. Your doctor may decrease your dose gradually. If you suddenly stop taking acetaminophen and codeine, you may experience withdrawal symptoms such as restlessness, widened pupils (black circles in the center of the eyes), teary eyes, irritability, anxiety, runny nose, difficulty falling asleep or staying asleep, yawning, sweating, fast breathing, fast heartbeat, chills, nausea, loss of appetite, vomiting, diarrhea, stomach cramps, or muscle aches. Other uses for this medicine This medication may be prescribed for other uses; ask your doctor or pharmacist for more information. What special precautions should I follow? Before taking acetaminophen and codeine, tell your doctor and pharmacist if you are allergic to acetaminophen, codeine, sulfite, any other medications, or any of the ingredients in acetaminophen and codeine products. Ask your doctor or pharmacist for a list of the ingredients. Tell your doctor or pharmacist if you are taking the following medications or have stopped taking them within the past two weeks: isocarboxazid (Marplan), linezolid (Zyvox), methylene blue, phenelzine (Nardil), selegiline (Eldepryl, Emsam, Zelaplar), or tranylcypromine (Parnate).. Tell your doctor and pharmacist what prescription and nonprescription medications, vitamins, nutritional supplements, and herbal products you are taking or plan to take while taking acetaminophen and codeine. Your doctor may need to change the doses of your medications or monitor you carefully for side effects. The following nonprescription products may interact with acetaminophen and codeine: allergy medications (diphenhydramine, loratadine, fexofenadine, chlorpheniramine or cetirizine). Be sure to let your doctor and pharmacist know that you are taking these medications before you start taking acetaminophen and codeine. Do not start any of these medications while taking acetaminophen and codeine without discussing with your healthcare provider. tell your doctor if you have any of the conditions mentioned in the IMPORTANT WARNING section, a blockage or narrowing of your stomach or intestines, or paralytic ileus (condition in which digested food does not move through the intestines). Your doctor may tell you not to take acetaminophen and codeine if you have any of these conditions. tell your doctor if you have or have ever had seizures, difficulty urinating, or pancreas, gallbladder, or kidney disease. you should know that this medication may decrease fertility in men and women. Talk to your doctor about the risks of taking acetaminophen and codeine. tell your doctor if you are breastfeeding. You should not breastfeed while taking acetaminophen and codeine. Codeine can cause shallow breathing, difficulty or noisy breathing, confusion, more than usual sleepiness, trouble breastfeeding, or limpness in breastfed infants. if you are having surgery, including dental surgery, tell the doctor or dentist that you are taking acetaminophen and codeine. you should know that this medication may make you drowsy. Do not drive a car or operate machinery until you know how this medication affects you. you should know that acetaminophen and codeine may cause dizziness, lightheadedness, and fainting when you get up too quickly from a lying position. To avoid this problem, get out of bed slowly, resting your feet on the floor for a few minutes before standing up. What should I do if I forget a dose? This medication usually is taken as needed. If your doctor has told you to take acetaminophen and codeine regularly, take the missed dose as soon as you remember it. However, if it is almost time for the next dose, skip the missed dose and continue your regular dosing schedule. Do not take a double dose to make up for a missed one. What side effects can this medication cause? Acetaminophen and codeine may cause side effects. Tell your doctor if any of these symptoms are severe or do not go away: constipation difficulty urinating Some side effects can be serious. If you experience any of these symptoms or those mentioned in the IMPORTANT WARNING section, call your doctor immediately or get emergency medical help: nausea, vomiting, loss of appetite, weakness, or dizziness agitation, hallucinations (seeing things or hearing voices that do not exist), fever, sweating, confusion, fast heartbeat, shivering, severe muscle stiffness or twitching, loss of coordination, nausea, vomiting, or diarrhea red, peeling or blistering skin rash hives itching swelling of the face, throat, tongue, lips, eyes, hands, feet, ankles, or lower legs hoarseness difficulty breathing or swallowing inability to get or keep an erection irregular menstruation decreased sexual desire Acetaminophen and codeine may cause other side effects. Call your doctor if you have any unusual problems while you are taking this medication. If you experience a serious side effect, you or your doctor may send a report to the Food and Drug Administration's (FDA) MedWatch Adverse Event Reporting program online ( http://www.fda.gov/Safety/MedWatch ) or by phone (1-800-332-1088). What should I know about storage and disposal of this medication? Keep this medication in the container it came in, tightly closed, and out of reach of children. Store it at room temperature and away from excess heat and moisture (not in the bathroom). It is important to keep all medication out of sight and reach of children as many containers (such as weekly pill minders and those for eye drops, creams, patches, and inhalers) are not child-resistant and young children can open them easily. To protect young children from poisoning, always lock safety caps and immediately place the medication in a safe location – one that is up and away and out of their sight and reach. http://www.upandaway.org Unneeded medications should be disposed of in special ways to ensure that pets, children, and other people cannot consume them. However, you should not flush this medication down the toilet. Instead, the best way to dispose of your medication is through a medicine take-back program. Talk to your pharmacist or contact your local garbage/recycling department to learn about take-back programs in your community. See the FDA's Safe Disposal of Medicines website ( http://goo.gl/c4Rm4p ) for more information if you do not have access to a take-back program. In case of emergency/overdose In case of overdose, call the poison control helpline at 1-800-222-1222. Information is also available online at https://www.poisonhelp.org/help . If the victim has collapsed, had a seizure, has trouble breathing, or can't be awakened, immediately call emergency services at 911. While taking acetaminophen and codeine, you should talk to your doctor about having a rescue medication called naloxone readily available (e.g., home, office). Naloxone is used to reverse the life-threatening effects of an overdose. It works by blocking the effects of opiates to relieve dangerous symptoms caused by high levels of opiates in the blood. Your doctor may also prescribe you naloxone if you are living in a household where there are small children or someone who has abused street or prescription drugs. You should make sure that you and your family members, caregivers, or the people who spend time with you know how to recognize an overdose, how to use naloxone, and what to do until emergency medical help arrives. Your doctor or pharmacist will show you and your family members how to use the medication. Ask your pharmacist for the instructions or visit the manufacturer's website to get the instructions. If symptoms of an overdose occur, a friend or family member should give the first dose of naloxone, call 911 immediately, and stay with you and watch you closely until emergency medical help arrives. Your symptoms may return within a few minutes after you receive naloxone. If your symptoms return, the person should give you another dose of naloxone. Additional doses may be given every 2 to 3 minutes, if symptoms return before medical help arrives. If someone takes more than the recommended dose of acetaminophen and codeine, get medical help immediately, even if the person does not have any symptoms. Symptoms of overdose may include the following: nausea vomiting loss of appetite sweating unusual bleeding or bruising pain in upper right part of the stomach yellowing of skin or eyes slow or shallow breathing difficulty breathing sleepiness unable to respond or wake up loss of muscle tone narrowed or widened pupils cold and clammy skin fainting slow heartbeat What other information should I know? Keep all appointments with your doctor. Your doctor may order certain lab tests to check your body's response to acetaminophen and codeine. Before having any laboratory test (especially those that involve methylene blue), tell your doctor and the laboratory personnel that you are taking acetaminophen and codeine. Do not let anyone else take your medication. Acetaminophen and codeine is a controlled substance. Prescriptions may be refilled only a limited number of times; ask your pharmacist if you have any questions. It is important for you to keep a written list of all of the prescription and nonprescription (over-the-counter) medicines you are taking, as well as any products such as vitamins, minerals, or other dietary supplements. You should bring this list with you each time you visit a doctor or if you are admitted to a hospital. It is also important information to carry with you in case of emergencies. Brand names Capital ® &amp; Codeine Codrix ® ¶ Empracet ® (#3, #4) ¶ Papa-deine ® (#3, #4) ¶ Phenaphen ® with Codeine (#2, #3, #4) ¶ Proval ® #3 ¶ Tylenol ® with Codeine (#3, #4)





[ Acetaminophen, Butalbital, and Caffeine pronounced as (a set a mee' noe fen) (byoo tal' bi tal) (kaf' een) To use the sharing features on this page, please enable JavaScript. Why is this medication prescribed? How should this medicine be used? Other uses for this medicine What special precautions should I follow? What special dietary instructions should I follow? What should I do if I forget a dose? What side effects can this medication cause? What should I know about storage and disposal of this medication? In case of emergency/overdose What other information should I know? Brand names IMPORTANT WARNING: Taking too much acetaminophen (found in this combination preparation) can cause liver damage, sometimes serious enough to require liver transplantation or cause death. Be aware that you should not take more than 4,000 mg of acetaminophen per day. You might accidentally take too much acetaminophen if you do not follow the directions on the prescription or package label carefully, or if you take more than one product that contains acetaminophen. If you need to take more than one product that contains acetaminophen, it may be difficult for you to calculate the total amount of acetaminophen you are taking. Ask your doctor or pharmacist to help you. Tell your doctor if you have or have ever had liver disease. Why is this medication prescribed? Acetaminophen, butalbital, and caffeine is used to relieve tension headaches. Acetaminophen is in a class of medications called analgesics (pain relievers). It works by changing the way the body senses pain. Butalbital is in a class of medications called barbiturates. It works by having a relaxing effect on the brain and central nervous system (CNS). Caffeine is a CNS stimulant. It works by changing the amounts of certain natural substances in the brain. How should this medicine be used? The combination of acetaminophen, butalbital, and caffeine comes as a capsule and tablet to take by mouth. It usually is taken every 4 hours as needed. Follow the directions on your prescription label carefully, and ask your doctor or pharmacist to explain any part you do not understand. Take acetaminophen, butalbital, and caffeine exactly as directed. Do not take more than six tablets or capsules in 1 day. If you think that you need more to relieve your symptoms, call your doctor. This medication can be habit-forming. Do not take a larger dose, take it more often, or for a longer period of time than prescribed by your doctor. Other uses for this medicine This medication may be prescribed for other uses; ask your doctor or pharmacist for more information. What special precautions should I follow? Before taking acetaminophen, butalbital, and caffeine, tell your doctor and pharmacist if you are allergic to acetaminophen, butalbital, caffeine, any other drugs, or any ingredient in acetaminophen, butalbital, and caffeine capsules or tablets. Ask your pharmacist for a list of the ingredients. tell your doctor and pharmacist what prescription and nonprescription medications, vitamins, nutritional supplements, and herbal products you are taking or plan to take while taking acetaminophen, butalbital, and caffeine. Your doctor may need to change the doses of your medications or monitor you carefully for side effects. tell your doctor or pharmacist if you are taking the following medications or have stopped taking them within the past two weeks: isocarboxazid (Marplan), linezolid (Zyvox), methylene blue, phenelzine (Nardil), selegiline (Emsam, Zelapar), and tranylcypromine (Parnate). tell your doctor if you have porphyria. Your doctor will probably tell you not to take acetaminophen, butalbital, and caffeine. tell your doctor if you have or have ever had stomach or kidney problems. tell your doctor if you are pregnant, plan to become pregnant, or are breast-feeding. If you become pregnant while taking acetaminophen, butalbital, and caffeine, call your doctor. you should know that this drug may make you drowsy. Do not drive a car or operate machinery until you know how this drug affects you. ask your doctor about the safe use of alcoholic beverages while you are taking acetaminophen, butalbital, and caffeine. Alcohol can make the side effects from acetaminophen, butalbital, and caffeine worse. What special dietary instructions should I follow? Unless your doctor tells you otherwise, continue your normal diet. What should I do if I forget a dose? This medication is usually taken as needed. If your doctor has told you to take acetaminophen, butalbital, and caffeine regularly, take the missed dose as soon as you remember it. However, if it is almost time for the next dose, skip the missed dose and continue your regular dosing schedule. Do not take a double dose to make up for a missed one. What side effects can this medication cause? Acetaminophen, butalbital, and caffeine may cause side effects. Tell your doctor if any of these symptoms are severe or do not go away: drowsiness nausea vomiting stomach pain lightheadedness dizziness confusion If you experience any of the following symptoms, call your doctor immediately: rash hives itching peeling, blistering skin difficulty breathing or swallowing swelling of the face, throat, tongue, lips, or eyes If you experience a serious side effect, you or your doctor may send a report to the Food and Drug Administration's (FDA) MedWatch Adverse Event Reporting program online ( http://www.fda.gov/Safety/MedWatch ) or by phone (1-800-332-1088). What should I know about storage and disposal of this medication? Keep this medication in the container it came in, tightly closed, and out of reach of children. Store it at room temperature, away from excess heat and moisture (not in the bathroom). Unneeded medications should be disposed of in special ways to ensure that pets, children, and other people cannot consume them. However, you should not flush this medication down the toilet. Instead, the best way to dispose of your medication is through a medicine take-back program. Talk to your pharmacist or contact your local garbage/recycling department to learn about take-back programs in your community. See the FDA's Safe Disposal of Medicines website ( http://goo.gl/c4Rm4p ) for more information if you do not have access to a take-back program. It is important to keep all medication out of sight and reach of children as many containers (such as weekly pill minders and those for eye drops, creams, patches, and inhalers) are not child-resistant and young children can open them easily. To protect young children from poisoning, always lock safety caps and immediately place the medication in a safe location – one that is up and away and out of their sight and reach. http://www.upandaway.org In case of emergency/overdose In case of overdose, call the poison control helpline at 1-800-222-1222. Information is also available online at https://www.poisonhelp.org/help . If the victim has collapsed, had a seizure, has trouble breathing, or can't be awakened, immediately call emergency services at 911. Symptoms of overdose may include the following: drowsiness confusion coma irregular or slowed breathing nausea vomiting loss of appetite unusual bleeding or bruising sweating pain in upper right part of the stomach yellowing of the skin or eyes difficulty falling asleep or staying asleep restlessness rapid or pounding heartbeat tremor confusion What other information should I know? Keep all appointments with your doctor. Before having any laboratory test, tell your doctor and the laboratory personnel that you are taking acetaminophen, butalbital, and caffeine. Do not let anyone else take your medication. This medication is a controlled substance. Prescriptions may be refilled only a limited number of times; ask your pharmacist if you have any questions. It is important for you to keep a written list of all of the prescription and nonprescription (over-the-counter) medicines you are taking, as well as any products such as vitamins, minerals, or other dietary supplements. You should bring this list with you each time you visit a doctor or if you are admitted to a hospital. It is also important information to carry with you in case of emergencies. Brand names Anoquan ® ¶ Esgic ® ¶ Femcet ® ¶ Fioricet ® ¶ Medigesic Plus ® ¶ Triad ® ¶



[ Medroxyprogesterone Injection pronounced as (me drox' ee proe jes' te rone) To use the sharing features on this page, please enable JavaScript. Why is this medication prescribed? How should this medicine be used? Other uses for this medicine What special precautions should I follow? What special dietary instructions should I follow? What should I do if I forget a dose? What side effects can this medication cause? What should I know about storage and disposal of this medication? In case of emergency/overdose What other information should I know? Brand names Other names IMPORTANT WARNING: Medroxyprogesterone injection may decrease the amount of calcium stored in your bones. The longer you use this medication, the more the amount of calcium in your bones may decrease. The amount of calcium in your bones may not return to normal even after you stop using medroxyprogesterone injection. Loss of calcium from your bones may cause osteoporosis (a condition in which the bones become thin and weak) and may increase the risk that your bones might break at some time in your life, especially after menopause (change of life). The amount of calcium in the bones usually increases during the teenage years. A decrease in bone calcium during this important time of bone strengthening may be especially serious. It is not known whether your risk of developing osteoporosis later in life is greater if you start to use medroxyprogesterone injection when you are a teenager or young adult. Tell your doctor if you or anyone in your family has osteoporosis; if you have or have ever had any other bone disease or anorexia nervosa (an eating disorder); or if you drink a lot of alcohol or smoke a great deal. Tell your doctor if you take any of the following medications: corticosteroids such as dexamethasone (Decadron, Dexone), methylprednisolone (Medrol), and prednisone (Deltasone); or medications for seizures such as carbamazepine (Tegretol), phenytoin (Dilantin), or phenobarbital (Luminal, Solfoton). You should not use medroxyprogesterone injection for a long time (e.g., more than 2 years) unless no other method of birth control is right for you or no other medication will work to treat your condition. Your doctor may test your bones to be sure they are not becoming too thin before you continue to use medroxyprogesterone injection. Keep all appointments with your doctor and the laboratory. Your doctor will monitor your health carefully to be sure you do not develop osteoporosis. Talk to your doctor about the risks of using medroxyprogesterone injection. Why is this medication prescribed? Medroxyprogesterone intramuscular (into a muscle) injection and medroxyprogesterone subcutaneous (under the skin) injection are used to prevent pregnancy. Medroxyprogesterone subcutaneous injection is also used to treat endometriosis (a condition in which the type of tissue that lines the uterus (womb) grows in other areas of the body and causes pain, heavy or irregular menstruation [periods], and other symptoms). Medroxyprogesterone is in a class of medications called progestins. It works to prevent pregnancy by preventing ovulation (the release of eggs from the ovaries). Medroxyprogesterone also thins the lining of the uterus. This helps to prevent pregnancy in all women and slows the spread of tissue from the uterus to other parts of the body in women who have endometriosis. Medroxyprogesterone injection is a very effective method of birth control but does not prevent the spread of human immunodeficiency virus (HIV, the virus that causes acquired immunodeficiency syndrome [AIDS]) or other sexually transmitted diseases. How should this medicine be used? Medroxyprogesterone intramuscular injection comes as a suspension (liquid) to be injected into the buttocks or upper arm. It is usually given once every 3 months (13 weeks) by a healthcare provider in an office or clinic. Medroxyprogesterone subcutaneous injection comes as suspension to be injected just under the skin. It is usually injected once every 12 to 14 weeks by a healthcare provider in an office or clinic. You must receive your first medroxyprogesterone subcutaneous or intramuscular injection only at a time when there is no possibility that you are pregnant. Therefore, you may only receive your first injection during the first 5 days of a normal menstrual period, during the first 5 days after you give birth if you are not planning to breast-feed your baby, or during the sixth week after giving birth if you are planning to breast-feed your baby. If you have been using a different method of birth control and are switching to medroxyprogesterone injection, your doctor will tell you when you should receive your first injection. Other uses for this medicine This medication is sometimes prescribed for other uses; ask your doctor or pharmacist for more information. What special precautions should I follow? Before using medroxyprogesterone injection, tell your doctor and pharmacist if you are allergic to medroxyprogesterone (Depo-Provera, depo-subQ provera 104, Provera, in Prempro, in Premphase) or any other medications. tell your doctor and pharmacist what prescription and nonprescription medications, vitamins, nutritional supplements, and herbal products you are taking or plan to take. Be sure to mention the medications listed in the IMPORTANT WARNING section and aminoglutethimide (Cytadren). Your doctor may need to change the doses of your medications or monitor you carefully for side effects. tell your doctor if you or anyone in your family has or has ever had breast cancer or diabetes. Also tell your doctor if you have or have ever had problems with your breasts such as lumps, bleeding from your nipples, an abnormal mammogram (breast x-ray), or fibrocystic breast disease (swollen, tender breasts and/or breast lumps that are not cancer); unexplained vaginal bleeding;irregular or very light menstrual periods; excessive weight gain or fluid retention before your period; blood clots in your legs, lungs, brain, or eyes; stroke or mini-stroke; migraine headaches; seizures; depression; high blood pressure; heart attack; asthma; or heart, liver, or kidney disease. tell your doctor if you think you might be pregnant, you are pregnant, or you plan to become pregnant. If you become pregnant while using medroxyprogesterone injection, call your doctor immediately. Medroxyprogesterone may harm the fetus. tell your doctor if you are breast-feeding. You may use medroxyprogesterone injection while you are breast-feeding as long as your baby is 6 weeks old when you receive your first injection. Some medroxyprogesterone may be passed to your baby in your breast milk but this has not been shown to be harmful. Studies of babies who were breast-fed while their mothers were using medroxyprogesterone injection showed that the babies were not harmed by the medication. if you are having surgery, including dental surgery, tell the doctor or dentist that you are using medroxyprogesterone injection. you should know that your menstrual cycle will probably change while you are using medroxyprogesterone injection. At first, your periods will probably be irregular, and you may experience spotting between periods. If you continue to use this medication, your periods may stop completely. Your menstrual cycle will probably return to normal some time after you stop using this medication. What special dietary instructions should I follow? You should eat plenty of foods that are rich in calcium and vitamin D while you are receiving medroxyprogesterone injection to help decrease the loss of calcium from your bones. Your doctor will tell you which foods are good sources of these nutrients and how many servings you need each day. Your doctor also may prescribe or recommend calcium or vitamin D supplements. What should I do if I forget a dose? If you miss an appointment to receive an injection of medroxyprogesterone, call your doctor. You may not be protected from pregnancy if you do not receive your injections on schedule. If you do not receive an injection on schedule, your doctor will tell you when you should receive the missed injection. Your doctor will probably administer a pregnancy test to be sure that you are not pregnant before giving you the missed injection. You should use a different method of birth control, such as condoms until you receive the injection that you missed. What side effects can this medication cause? Medroxyprogesterone may cause side effects. Tell your doctor if any of these symptoms are severe or do not go away: changes in menstrual periods (See SPECIAL PRECAUTIONS) weight gain weakness tiredness nervousness irritability depression difficulty falling asleep or staying asleep hot flashes breast pain, swelling, or tenderness stomach cramps or bloating leg cramps back or joint pain acne loss of hair on scalp swelling, redness, irritation, burning, or itching of the vagina white vaginal discharge changes in sexual desire cold or flu symptoms pain, irritation, lumps, redness or scarring in the place where the medication was injected Some side effects can be serious. The following side effects are uncommon, but if you experience any of them, call your doctor immediately: sudden shortness of breath sudden sharp or crushing chest pain coughing up blood severe headache nausea vomiting dizziness or faintness change or loss of vision double vision bulging eyes difficulty speaking weakness or numbness in an arm or leg seizure yellowing of the skin or eyes extreme tiredness pain, swelling, warmth, redness, or tenderness in one leg only menstrual bleeding that is heavier or lasts longer than normal severe pain or tenderness just below the waist rash hives itching difficulty breathing or swallowing swelling of the hands, feet, ankles, or lower legs difficult, painful, or frequent urination constant pain, pus, warmth, swelling, or bleeding in the place where the medication was injected If you are younger than 35 years old and began to receive medroxyprogesterone injection in the last 4 to 5 years, you may have a slightly increased risk that you will develop breast cancer. Medroxyprogesterone injection may also increase the chance that you will develop a blood clot that moves to your lungs or brain. Talk to your doctor about the risks of using this medication. Medroxyprogesterone injection is a long-acting birth control method. You might not become pregnant for some time after you receive your last injection. Talk to your doctor about the effects of using this medication if you plan to become pregnant in the near future. Medroxyprogesterone injection may cause other side effects. Call your doctor if you have any unusual problems while receiving this medication. If you experience a serious side effect, you or your doctor may send a report to the Food and Drug Administration's (FDA) MedWatch Adverse Event Reporting program online ( http://www.fda.gov/Safety/MedWatch ) or by phone (1-800-332-1088). What should I know about storage and disposal of this medication? Your doctor will store the medication in his or her office. In case of emergency/overdose In case of overdose, call the poison control helpline at 1-800-222-1222. Information is also available online at https://www.poisonhelp.org/help . If the victim has collapsed, had a seizure, has trouble breathing, or can't be awakened, immediately call emergency services at 911. What other information should I know? You should have a complete physical exam, including blood pressure measurements, breast and pelvic exams, and a Pap test, at least yearly. Follow your doctor's directions for self-examining your breasts; report any lumps immediately. Before you have any laboratory tests, tell the laboratory personnel that you are using medroxyprogesterone. It is important for you to keep a written list of all of the prescription and nonprescription (over-the-counter) medicines you are taking, as well as any products such as vitamins, minerals, or other dietary supplements. You should bring this list with you each time you visit a doctor or if you are admitted to a hospital. It is also important information to carry with you in case of emergencies. Brand names Depo-Provera ® depo-subQ provera 104 ®

[ Medroxyprogesterone pronounced as (me drox' ee proe jes' te rone) To use the sharing features on this page, please enable JavaScript. Why is this medication prescribed? How should this medicine be used? Other uses for this medicine What special precautions should I follow? What special dietary instructions should I follow? What should I do if I forget a dose? What side effects can this medication cause? What should I know about storage and disposal of this medication? In case of emergency/overdose What other information should I know? Brand names Other names Why is this medication prescribed? Medroxyprogesterone is used to treat abnormal menstruation (periods) or irregular vaginal bleeding. Medroxyprogesterone is also used to bring on a normal menstrual cycle in women who menstruated normally in the past but have not menstruated for at least 6 months and who are not pregnant or undergoing menopause (change of life). Medroxyprogesterone is also used to prevent overgrowth of the lining of the uterus (womb) and may decrease the risk of cancer of the uterus in patients who are taking estrogen. Medroxyprogesterone is in a class of medications called progestins. It works by stopping the growth of the lining of the uterus and by causing the uterus to produce certain hormones. How should this medicine be used? Medroxyprogesterone comes as a tablet to take by mouth. It is usually taken once a day on certain days of a regular monthly cycle. To help you remember to take medroxyprogesterone, take it at around the same time every day on the days you are scheduled to take it. Follow the directions on your prescription label carefully, and ask your doctor or pharmacist to explain any part you do not understand. Take medroxyprogesterone exactly as directed. Do not take more or less of it or take it more often than prescribed by your doctor. Medroxyprogesterone may control your condition but will not cure it. Continue to take medroxyprogesterone according to your monthly schedule even if you feel well. Do not stop taking medroxyprogesterone without talking to your doctor. Other uses for this medicine This medication may be prescribed for other uses; ask your doctor or pharmacist for more information. What special precautions should I follow? Before taking medroxyprogesterone, tell your doctor and pharmacist if you are allergic to medroxyprogesterone (Provera, Depo-Provera), any other medications, or corn. tell your doctor and pharmacist what prescription and nonprescription medications, vitamins, nutritional supplements, and herbal products you are taking. Be sure to mention aminoglutethimide (Cytadren). Your doctor may need to change the doses of your medications or monitor you carefully for side effects. tell your doctor if you have or have ever had cancer of the breasts or female organs; unexplained vaginal bleeding; a missed abortion (a pregnancy that ended when the unborn child died in the uterus but was not expelled from the body); blood clots in your legs, lungs, brain, or eyes; stroke or mini-stroke; seizures; migraine headaches; depression; asthma; diabetes; or heart, kidney, or liver disease. tell your doctor if you are pregnant, plan to become pregnant, or are breast-feeding. If you become pregnant while taking medroxyprogesterone, call your doctor immediately. Medroxyprogesterone should never be used to test for pregnancy or to prevent miscarriage during the first few months of pregnancy. Medroxyprogesterone has not been shown to prevent miscarriage and may harm the fetus. if you are having surgery, including dental surgery, tell the doctor or dentist that you are taking medroxyprogesterone. What special dietary instructions should I follow? Unless your doctor tells you otherwise, continue your normal diet. What should I do if I forget a dose? Take the missed dose as soon as you remember it. However, if it is almost time for the next dose, skip the missed dose and continue your regular dosing schedule. Do not take a double dose to make up for a missed one. What side effects can this medication cause? Medroxyprogesterone may cause side effects. Tell your doctor if any of these symptoms are severe or do not go away: breasts that are tender or produce a liquid changes in menstrual flow irregular vaginal bleeding or spotting acne growth of hair on face loss of hair on scalp difficulty falling asleep or staying asleep drowsiness upset stomach weight gain or loss Some side effects can be serious. The following symptoms are uncommon, but if you experience any of them, call your doctor immediately: pain, swelling, warmth, redness, or tenderness in one leg only slow or difficult speech dizziness or faintness weakness or numbness of an arm or leg shortness of breath coughing up blood sudden sharp or crushing chest pain fast or pounding heartbeat sudden vision changes or loss of vision double vision blurred vision bulging eyes missed periods depression yellowing of the skin or eyes fever hives skin rash itching difficulty breathing or swallowing swelling of the hands, feet, ankles, or lower legs Some laboratory animals who were given medroxyprogesterone developed breast tumors. It is not known if medroxyprogesterone increases the risk of breast cancer in humans. Medroxyprogesterone may also increase the chance that you will develop a blood clot that moves to your lungs or brain. Talk to your doctor about the risks of taking this medication. Medroxyprogesterone may cause other side effects. Call your doctor if you have any unusual problems while taking this medication. If you experience a serious side effect, you or your doctor may send a report to the Food and Drug Administration's (FDA) MedWatch Adverse Event Reporting program online ( http://www.fda.gov/Safety/MedWatch ) or by phone (1-800-332-1088). What should I know about storage and disposal of this medication? Keep this medication in the container it came in, tightly closed, and out of reach of children. Store it at room temperature and away from excess heat and moisture (not in the bathroom). Unneeded medications should be disposed of in special ways to ensure that pets, children, and other people cannot consume them. However, you should not flush this medication down the toilet. Instead, the best way to dispose of your medication is through a medicine take-back program. Talk to your pharmacist or contact your local garbage/recycling department to learn about take-back programs in your community. See the FDA's Safe Disposal of Medicines website ( http://goo.gl/c4Rm4p ) for more information if you do not have access to a take-back program. It is important to keep all medication out of sight and reach of children as many containers (such as weekly pill minders and those for eye drops, creams, patches, and inhalers) are not child-resistant and young children can open them easily. To protect young children from poisoning, always lock safety caps and immediately place the medication in a safe location – one that is up and away and out of their sight and reach. http://www.upandaway.org In case of emergency/overdose In case of overdose, call the poison control helpline at 1-800-222-1222. Information is also available online at https://www.poisonhelp.org/help . If the victim has collapsed, had a seizure, has trouble breathing, or can't be awakened, immediately call emergency services at 911. What other information should I know? Keep all appointments with your doctor. Before having any laboratory test, tell your doctor and the laboratory personnel that you are taking medroxyprogesterone. Do not let anyone else take your medication. Ask your pharmacist any questions you have about refilling your prescription. It is important for you to keep a written list of all of the prescription and nonprescription (over-the-counter) medicines you are taking, as well as any products such as vitamins, minerals, or other dietary supplements. You should bring this list with you each time you visit a doctor or if you are admitted to a hospital. It is also important information to carry with you in case of emergencies. Brand names Amen ® ¶ Curretab ® ¶ Cycrin ® ¶ Prodroxy ® ¶ Provera ®





[ Aspirin pronounced as (as' pir in) To use the sharing features on this page, please enable JavaScript. Why is this medication prescribed? How should this medicine be used? Other uses for this medicine What special precautions should I follow? What special dietary instructions should I follow? What should I do if I forget a dose? What side effects can this medication cause? What should I know about storage and disposal of this medication? In case of emergency/overdose What other information should I know? Brand names Other names Why is this medication prescribed? Prescription aspirin is used to relieve the symptoms of rheumatoid arthritis (arthritis caused by swelling of the lining of the joints), osteoarthritis (arthritis caused by breakdown of the lining of the joints), systemic lupus erythematosus (condition in which the immune system attacks the joints and organs and causes pain and swelling) and certain other rheumatologic conditions (conditions in which the immune system attacks parts of the body). Nonprescription aspirin is used to reduce fever and to relieve mild to moderate pain from headaches, menstrual periods, arthritis, toothaches, and muscle aches. Nonprescription aspirin is also used to prevent heart attacks in people who have had a heart attack in the past or who have angina (chest pain that occurs when the heart does not get enough oxygen). Nonprescription aspirin is also used to reduce the risk of death in people who are experiencing or who have recently experienced a heart attack. Nonprescription aspirin is also used to prevent ischemic strokes (strokes that occur when a blood clot blocks the flow of blood to the brain) or mini-strokes (strokes that occur when the flow of blood to the brain is blocked for a short time) in people who have had this type of stroke or mini-stroke in the past. Aspirin will not prevent hemorrhagic strokes (strokes caused by bleeding in the brain). Aspirin is in a group of medications called salicylates. It works by stopping the production of certain natural substances that cause fever, pain, swelling, and blood clots. Aspirin is also available in combination with other medications such as antacids, pain relievers, and cough and cold medications. This monograph only includes information about the use of aspirin alone. If you are taking a combination product, read the information on the package or prescription label or ask your doctor or pharmacist for more information. How should this medicine be used? Prescription aspirin comes as an extended-release (long-acting) tablet. Nonprescription aspirin comes as a regular tablet, a delayed-release (releases the medication in the intestine to prevent damage to the stomach) tablet, a chewable tablet, powder, and a gum to take by mouth. Prescription aspirin is usually taken two or more times a day. Nonprescription aspirin is usually taken once a day to lower the risk of a heart attack or stroke. Nonprescription aspirin is usually taken every 4 to 6 hours as needed to treat fever or pain. Follow the directions on the package or prescription label carefully, and ask your doctor or pharmacist to explain any part you do not understand. Take aspirin exactly as directed. Do not take more or less of it or take it more often than directed by the package label or prescribed by your doctor. Swallow the extended-release tablets whole with a full glass of water. Do not break, crush, or chew them. Swallow the delayed-release tablets with a full glass of water. Chewable aspirin tablets may be chewed, crushed, or swallowed whole. Drink a full glass of water, immediately after taking these tablets. Ask a doctor before you give aspirin to your child or teenager. Aspirin may cause Reye's syndrome (a serious condition in which fat builds up on the brain, liver, and other body organs) in children and teenagers, especially if they have a virus such as chicken pox or the flu. If you have had oral surgery or surgery to remove your tonsils in the last 7 days, talk to your doctor about which types of aspirin are safe for you. Delayed-release tablets begin to work some time after they are taken. Do not take delayed-release tablets for fever or pain that must be relieved quickly. Stop taking aspirin and call your doctor if your fever lasts longer than 3 days, if your pain lasts longer than 10 days, or if the part of your body that was painful becomes red or swollen. You may have a condition that must be treated by a doctor. Other uses for this medicine Aspirin is also sometimes used to treat rheumatic fever (a serious condition that may develop after a strep throat infection and may cause swelling of the heart valves) and Kawasaki disease (an illness that may cause heart problems in children). Aspirin is also sometimes used to lower the risk of blood clots in patients who have artificial heart valves or certain other heart conditions and to prevent certain complications of pregnancy. What special precautions should I follow? Before taking aspirin, tell your doctor and pharmacist if you are allergic to aspirin, other medications for pain or fever, tartrazine dye, or any other medications. tell your doctor and pharmacist what prescription and nonprescription medications, vitamins, nutritional supplements, and herbal products you are taking or plan to take. Be sure to mention any of the following: acetazolamide (Diamox); angiotensin-converting enzyme (ACE) inhibitors such as benazepril (Lotensin), captopril (Capoten), enalapril (Vasotec), fosinopril (Monopril), lisinopril (Prinivil, Zestril), moexipril (Univasc), perindopril, (Aceon), quinapril (Accupril), ramipril (Altace), and trandolapril (Mavik); anticoagulants ('blood thinners') such as warfarin (Coumadin) and heparin; beta blockers such as atenolol (Tenormin), labetalol (Normodyne), metoprolol (Lopressor, Toprol XL), nadolol (Corgard), and propranolol (Inderal); diuretics ('water pills'); medications for diabetes or arthritis; medications for gout such as probenecid and sulfinpyrazone (Anturane); methotrexate (Trexall); other nonsteroidal anti-inflammatory drugs (NSAIDs) such as naproxen (Aleve, Naprosyn); phenytoin (Dilantin); and valproic acid (Depakene, Depakote). Your doctor may need to change the doses of your medications or monitor you more carefully for side effects. if you are taking aspirin on a regular basis to prevent heart attack or stroke, do not take ibuprofen (Advil, Motrin) to treat pain or fever without talking to your doctor. Your doctor will probably tell you to allow some time to pass between taking your daily dose of aspirin and taking a dose of ibuprofen. tell your doctor if you have or have ever had asthma, frequent stuffed or runny nose, or nasal polyps (growths on the linings of the nose). If you have these conditions, there is a risk that you will have an allergic reaction to aspirin. Your doctor may tell you that you should not take aspirin. tell your doctor if you often have heartburn, upset stomach, or stomach pain and if you have or have ever had ulcers, anemia, bleeding problems such as hemophilia, or kidney or liver disease. tell your doctor if you are pregnant, you plan to become pregnant, or if you are breast-feeding. Low dose aspirin 81-mg may be taken during pregnancy, but aspirin doses greater that 81 mg may harm the fetus and cause problems with delivery if it is taken around 20 weeks or later during pregnancy. Do not take aspirin doses greater that 81 mg (e.g., 325 mg) around or after 20 weeks of pregnancy, unless told to do so by your doctor. If you become pregnant while taking aspirin or aspirin containing medications, call your doctor. if you are having surgery, including dental surgery, tell the doctor or dentist that you are taking aspirin. if you drink three or more alcoholic drinks every day, ask your doctor if you should take aspirin or other medications for pain and fever. What special dietary instructions should I follow? Unless your doctor tells you otherwise, continue your normal diet. What should I do if I forget a dose? If your doctor has told you to take aspirin on a regular basis and you miss a dose, take the missed dose as soon as you remember it. However, if it is almost time for the next dose, skip the missed dose and continue your regular dosing schedule. Do not take a double dose to make up for a missed one. What side effects can this medication cause? Aspirin may cause side effects. Tell your doctor if any of these symptoms are severe or do not go away: nausea vomiting stomach pain heartburn Some side effects can be serious. If you experience any of the following symptoms, call your doctor immediately: hives rash swelling of the eyes, face, lips, tongue, or throat wheezing or difficulty breathing hoarseness fast heartbeat fast breathing cold, clammy skin ringing in the ears loss of hearing bloody vomit vomit that looks like coffee grounds bright red blood in stools black or tarry stools Aspirin may cause other side effects. Call your doctor if you experience any unusual problems while you are taking this medication. If you experience a serious side effect, you or your doctor may send a report to the Food and Drug Administration's (FDA) MedWatch Adverse Event Reporting program online ( http://www.fda.gov/Safety/MedWatch ) or by phone (1-800-332-1088). What should I know about storage and disposal of this medication? Keep this medication in the container it came in, tightly closed, and out of reach of children. Store it at room temperature and away from excess heat and moisture (not in the bathroom). Dispose of any tablets that have a strong vinegar smell. It is important to keep all medication out of sight and reach of children as many containers (such as weekly pill minders and those for eye drops, creams, patches, and inhalers) are not child-resistant and young children can open them easily. To protect young children from poisoning, always lock safety caps and immediately place the medication in a safe location – one that is up and away and out of their sight and reach. http://www.upandaway.org Unneeded medications should be disposed of in special ways to ensure that pets, children, and other people cannot consume them. However, you should not flush this medication down the toilet. Instead, the best way to dispose of your medication is through a medicine take-back program. Talk to your pharmacist or contact your local garbage/recycling department to learn about take-back programs in your community. See the FDA's Safe Disposal of Medicines website ( http://goo.gl/c4Rm4p ) for more information if you do not have access to a take-back program. In case of emergency/overdose In case of overdose, call the poison control helpline at 1-800-222-1222. Information is also available online at https://www.poisonhelp.org/help . If the victim has collapsed, had a seizure, has trouble breathing, or can't be awakened, immediately call emergency services at 911. Symptoms of overdose may include: burning pain in the throat or stomach vomiting decreased urination fever restlessness irritability talking a lot and saying things that do not make sense fear or nervousness dizziness double vision uncontrollable shaking of a part of the body confusion abnormally excited mood hallucination (seeing things or hearing voices that are not there) seizures drowsiness loss of consciousness for a period of time What other information should I know? Keep all appointments with your doctor. If you are taking prescription aspirin, do not let anyone else take your medication. Ask your pharmacist any questions you have about refilling your prescription. It is important for you to keep a written list of all of the prescription and nonprescription (over-the-counter) medicines you are taking, as well as any products such as vitamins, minerals, or other dietary supplements. You should bring this list with you each time you visit a doctor or if you are admitted to a hospital. It is also important information to carry with you in case of emergencies. Brand names Acuprin ® Anacin ® Aspirin Regimen Ascriptin ® Aspergum ® Aspidrox ® Aspir-Mox ® Aspirtab ® Aspir-trin ® Bayer ® Aspirin Bufferin ® Buffex ® Easprin ® Ecotrin ® Empirin ® Entaprin ® Entercote ® Fasprin ® Genacote ® Gennin-FC ® Genprin ® Halfprin ® Magnaprin ® Miniprin ® Minitabs ® Ridiprin ® Sloprin ® Uni-Buff ® Uni-Tren ® Valomag ® Zorprin ®









[ Aclidinium Oral Inhalation pronounced as (a'' kli din' ee um )  Aclidinium is used as a long term treatment to prevent wheezing, shortness of breath, coughing, and chest tightness in patients with chronic obstructive pulmonary disease (COPD, a group of diseases that affect the lungs and airways) such as chronic bronchitis (swelling of the air passages that lead to the lungs) and emphysema (damage to air sacs in the lungs). Aclidinium is in a class of medications called bronchodilators. It works by relaxing and opening the air passages to the lungs to make breathing easier. How should this medicine be used? Aclidinium comes as a dry powder in an inhalation device to inhale by mouth. It is usually inhaled twice a day, once every 12 hours. Inhale aclidinium at around the same times every day. Follow the directions on your prescription label carefully, and ask your doctor or pharmacist to explain any part you do not understand. Inhale aclidinium exactly as directed. Do not inhale more or less of it or inhale it more often than prescribed by your doctor. Do not use aclidinium to treat a sudden attack of wheezing or shortness of breath. Your doctor will prescribe a rescue medication to treat sudden attacks of symptoms. Keep this rescue medication with you at all times in case you have sudden difficulty breathing. Your condition may worsen over time during your treatment with aclidinium. Do not take extra doses of aclidinium if this happens. Call your doctor or get emergency medical help if your breathing problems worsen, you need to use your rescue medication to treat sudden attacks more often, or your rescue medication does not relieve your symptoms as well as it did in the past. Aclidinium can help control your symptoms but does not cure COPD. You may notice some improvement in your symptoms the first day that you use aclidinium, but it may take longer for you to feel the full benefit of the medication. Continue to use aclidinium even if you feel well. Do not stop using aclidinium without talking to your doctor. Before you use your aclidinium inhalation device for the first time, read the manufacturer's directions for use carefully. Ask your doctor or pharmacist to show you how to use the device and practice using it while he or she watches. Be careful not to get aclidinium powder in your eyes. If you get the powder in your eyes, you may experience blurred vision and sensitivity to light. The aclidinium inhalation device does not need to be cleaned. If you want to clean the device, you may wipe the outside of the mouthpiece with a dry tissue or paper towel. Never use water to clean the device because you might damage the medication. Ask your pharmacist or doctor for a copy of the manufacturer's information for the patient. Other uses for this medicine This medication may be prescribed for other uses; ask your doctor or pharmacist for more information. What special precautions should I follow? Before using aclidinium, tell your doctor and pharmacist if you are allergic to aclidinium, atropine (Atropen, in Lomotil, in Lonox, in Motofen), any other medications, any of the ingredients in aclidinium inhalation powder, or milk proteins. Ask your pharmacist or check the patient information for a list of the ingredients. tell your doctor and pharmacist what prescription and nonprescription medications, vitamins, nutritional supplements, and herbal products you are taking or plan to take. Be sure to mention any of the following: antihistamines; atropine (Atropen, in Lomotil, in Lonox, in Motofen); glycopyrrolate (Lonhala Magnair, Seebri, in Bevespi Aerosphere, in Utibron); ipratropium (Atrovent); medications for irritable bowel disease, motion sickness, Parkinson's disease, ulcers, and urinary problems; tiotropium (Spiriva); and umeclidinium (Incruse Ellipta, in Anoro Ellipta, in Trelegy Ellipta). Your doctor may need to change the doses of your medications or monitor you carefully for side effects. tell your doctor if you have or have ever had glaucoma (increased pressure in the eye that may cause vision loss), benign prostatic hypertrophy (BPH; enlargement of a male reproductive gland), a bladder condition, or any other condition that makes it difficult for you to empty your bladder completely. tell your doctor if you are pregnant, plan to become pregnant, or are breast-feeding. If you become pregnant while taking aclidinium, call your doctor. What special dietary instructions should I follow? Unless your doctor tells you otherwise, continue your normal diet. What should I do if I forget a dose? Skip the missed dose and continue your regular dosing schedule. Do not inhale a double dose to make up for a missed one. What side effects can this medication cause? Aclidinium may cause side effects. Tell your doctor if any of these symptoms are severe or do not go away: headache runny nose and other cold symptoms cough diarrhea Some side effects can be serious. If you experience any of these symptoms, stop using aclidinium and call your doctor immediately or get emergency medical treatment: sudden shortness of breath immediately after inhaling the medication eye pain or redness blurred vision seeing halos or bright colors around lights nausea or vomiting difficult, painful or frequent urination weak urine stream rash hives itching swelling of the eyes, face, lips, mouth, tongue, or throat difficulty breathing or swallowing Aclidinium may cause other side effects. Call your doctor if you have any unusual problems while using this medication. If you experience a serious side effect, you or your doctor may send a report to the Food and Drug Administration's (FDA) MedWatch Adverse Event Reporting program online ( http://www.fda.gov/Safety/MedWatch ) or by phone (1-800-332-1088). What should I know about storage and disposal of this medication? Keep this medication in the container it came in, tightly closed, and out of reach of children. Keep the device in the protective pouch and do not open the sealed pouch until you are ready to use the medication. Store it at room temperature and away from excess heat and moisture (not in the bathroom). Do not store the medication on a surface that vibrates. Dispose of the inhalation device 45 days after you open it, when you see a zero in the dose indicator window, or when the device locks out, whichever comes soonest. It is important to keep all medication out of sight and reach of children as many containers (such as weekly pill minders and those for eye drops, creams, patches, and inhalers) are not child-resistant and young children can open them easily. To protect young children from poisoning, always lock safety caps and immediately place the medication in a safe location – one that is up and away and out of their sight and reach. http://www.upandaway.org Unneeded medications should be disposed of in special ways to ensure that pets, children, and other people cannot consume them. However, you should not flush this medication down the toilet. Instead, the best way to dispose of your medication is through a medicine take-back program. Talk to your pharmacist or contact your local garbage/recycling department to learn about take-back programs in your community. See the FDA's Safe Disposal of Medicines website ( http://goo.gl/c4Rm4p ) for more information if you do not have access to a take-back program. In case of emergency/overdose In case of overdose, call the poison control helpline at 1-800-222-1222. Information is also available online at https://www.poisonhelp.org/help . If the victim has collapsed, had a seizure, has trouble breathing, or can't be awakened, immediately call emergency services at 911. What other information should I know? Keep all appointments with your doctor. Do not let anyone else use your medication. Ask your pharmacist any questions you have about refilling your prescription. It is important for you to keep a written list of all of the prescription and nonprescription (over-the-counter) medicines you are taking, as well as any products such as vitamins, minerals, or other dietary supplements. You should bring this list with you each time you visit a doctor or if you are admitted to a hospital. It is also important information to carry with you in case of emergencies. Brand names Tudorza ® Pressair ®

[ Benzoyl Peroxide Topical pronounced as (ben' zoe il) To use the sharing features on this page, please enable JavaScript. Why is this medication prescribed? How should this medicine be used? What special precautions should I follow? What should I do if I forget a dose? What side effects can this medication cause? What should I know about storage and disposal of this medication? What other information should I know? Brand names Why is this medication prescribed? Benzoyl peroxide is used to treat mild to moderate acne. How should this medicine be used? Benzoyl peroxide comes in cleansing liquid or bar, lotion, cream, and gel for use on the skin. Benzoyl peroxide usually is used one or two times daily. Start with once daily to see how your skin reacts to this medication. Follow the directions on the package or on your prescription label carefully, and ask your doctor or pharmacist to explain any part you do not understand. Use benzoyl peroxide exactly as directed. Do not use more or less of it or use it more often than directed by your doctor. Apply a small amount of the benzoyl peroxide product to one or two small areas you want to treat for 3 days when you begin to use this medication for the first time. If no reaction or discomfort occurs, use the product as directed on the package or on your prescription label. The cleansing liquid and bar are used to wash the affected area as directed. To use the lotion, cream, or gel, first wash the affected skin areas and gently pat dry with a towel. Then apply a small amount of benzoyl Peroxide, rub it in gently. Avoid anything that may irritate your skin (e.g., abrasive soaps or cleansers, alcohol-containing products, cosmetics or soaps that dry the skin, medicated cosmetics, sunlight, and sunlamps) unless directed otherwise by your doctor. It may take 4 to 6 weeks to see the effects of this medication. If your acne does not improve after this time, call your doctor. Do not allow medication to get into your eyes, mouth, and nose. Do not use benzoyl peroxide on children less than 12 years of age without talking to a doctor. What special precautions should I follow? Before using benzoyl peroxide, tell your doctor and pharmacist if you are allergic to benzoyl peroxide, any other medications, or any of the ingredients in benzoyl peroxide products. Ask your pharmacist or check the package label for a list of the ingredients. tell your doctor and pharmacist what prescription and nonprescription medications you are taking, including vitamins. tell your doctor if you are pregnant, plan to become pregnant, or are breastfeeding. If you become pregnant while using benzoyl peroxide, call your doctor. What should I do if I forget a dose? Apply the missed dose as soon as you remember it. However, if it is almost time for the next dose, skip the missed dose and continue your regular dosing schedule. Do not apply a double dose to make up for a missed one. What side effects can this medication cause? Benzoyl peroxide may cause side effects. Tell your doctor if any of these symptoms are severe or do not go away: dryness or peeling of skin feeling of warmth tingling slight stinging Some side effects may be serious. If you experience any of these symptoms, call your doctor immediately or get emergency medical treatment: burning, blistering, redness, or swelling of the area of the treated area rash If you experience any of the following symptoms, stop using benzoyl peroxide and call your doctor immediately or get emergency medical help: hives itching throat tightness difficulty breathing feeling faint swelling of the eyes, face, lips, or tongue If you experience a serious side effect, you or your doctor may send a report to the Food and Drug Administration's (FDA) MedWatch Adverse Event Reporting program online ( http://www.fda.gov/Safety/MedWatch ) or by phone (1-800-332-1088). What should I know about storage and disposal of this medication? Keep this medication in the container it came in, tightly closed, and out of reach of children. Store it at room temperature and away from excess heat and moisture (not in the bathroom). Unneeded medications should be disposed of in special ways to ensure that pets, children, and other people cannot consume them. However, you should not flush this medication down the toilet. Instead, the best way to dispose of your medication is through a medicine take-back program. Talk to your pharmacist or contact your local garbage/recycling department to learn about take-back programs in your community. See the FDA's Safe Disposal of Medicines website ( http://goo.gl/c4Rm4p ) for more information if you do not have access to a take-back program. It is important to keep all medication out of sight and reach of children as many containers (such as weekly pill minders and those for eye drops, creams, patches, and inhalers) are not child-resistant and young children can open them easily. To protect young children from poisoning, always lock safety caps and immediately place the medication in a safe location – one that is up and away and out of their sight and reach. http://www.upandaway.org What other information should I know? Keep all appointments with your doctor. Benzoyl peroxide is for external use only. Do not let benzoyl peroxide get into your eyes, nose, or mouth, and do not swallow it. Do not apply dressings, bandages, cosmetics, lotions, or other skin medications to the area being treated unless your doctor tells you. Keep benzoyl peroxide away from your hair and colored fabrics because it may bleach them. Do not let anyone else use your medication. Tell your doctor if your skin condition gets worse or does not go away. It is important for you to keep a written list of all of the prescription and nonprescription (over-the-counter) medicines you are taking, as well as any products such as vitamins, minerals, or other dietary supplements. You should bring this list with you each time you visit a doctor or if you are admitted to a hospital. It is also important information to carry with you in case of emergencies. Brand names Acne-Clear ® Acnigel ® Ben-Aqua ® Benzac ® Benzagel ® Benzashave ® BenzEFoam ® Benziq ® Binora ® Brevoxyl ® Clear By Design ® Clearasil ® Clearplex ® Clearskin ® Clinac BPO ® Del-Aqua ® Desquam ® Ethexderm BPW ® Fostex ® Inova ® Lavoclen ® Loroxide ® NeoBenz ® Neutrogena ® Oscion ® Oxy 10 ® Pacnex ® PanOxyl ® Peroderm ® Peroxin A ® Persa-Gel ® Seba-Gel ® Soluclenz ® Theroxide ® Triaz ® Vanoxide ® Zaclir ® Zeroxin ® ZoDerm ®

[ Benzoyl Peroxide Topical pronounced as (ben' zoe il) To use the sharing features on this page, please enable JavaScript. Why is this medication prescribed? How should this medicine be used? What special precautions should I follow? What should I do if I forget a dose? What side effects can this medication cause? What should I know about storage and disposal of this medication? What other information should I know? Brand names Why is this medication prescribed? Benzoyl peroxide is used to treat mild to moderate acne. How should this medicine be used? Benzoyl peroxide comes in cleansing liquid or bar, lotion, cream, and gel for use on the skin. Benzoyl peroxide usually is used one or two times daily. Start with once daily to see how your skin reacts to this medication. Follow the directions on the package or on your prescription label carefully, and ask your doctor or pharmacist to explain any part you do not understand. Use benzoyl peroxide exactly as directed. Do not use more or less of it or use it more often than directed by your doctor. Apply a small amount of the benzoyl peroxide product to one or two small areas you want to treat for 3 days when you begin to use this medication for the first time. If no reaction or discomfort occurs, use the product as directed on the package or on your prescription label. The cleansing liquid and bar are used to wash the affected area as directed. To use the lotion, cream, or gel, first wash the affected skin areas and gently pat dry with a towel. Then apply a small amount of benzoyl Peroxide, rub it in gently. Avoid anything that may irritate your skin (e.g., abrasive soaps or cleansers, alcohol-containing products, cosmetics or soaps that dry the skin, medicated cosmetics, sunlight, and sunlamps) unless directed otherwise by your doctor. It may take 4 to 6 weeks to see the effects of this medication. If your acne does not improve after this time, call your doctor. Do not allow medication to get into your eyes, mouth, and nose. Do not use benzoyl peroxide on children less than 12 years of age without talking to a doctor. What special precautions should I follow? Before using benzoyl peroxide, tell your doctor and pharmacist if you are allergic to benzoyl peroxide, any other medications, or any of the ingredients in benzoyl peroxide products. Ask your pharmacist or check the package label for a list of the ingredients. tell your doctor and pharmacist what prescription and nonprescription medications you are taking, including vitamins. tell your doctor if you are pregnant, plan to become pregnant, or are breastfeeding. If you become pregnant while using benzoyl peroxide, call your doctor. What should I do if I forget a dose? Apply the missed dose as soon as you remember it. However, if it is almost time for the next dose, skip the missed dose and continue your regular dosing schedule. Do not apply a double dose to make up for a missed one. What side effects can this medication cause? Benzoyl peroxide may cause side effects. Tell your doctor if any of these symptoms are severe or do not go away: dryness or peeling of skin feeling of warmth tingling slight stinging Some side effects may be serious. If you experience any of these symptoms, call your doctor immediately or get emergency medical treatment: burning, blistering, redness, or swelling of the area of the treated area rash If you experience any of the following symptoms, stop using benzoyl peroxide and call your doctor immediately or get emergency medical help: hives itching throat tightness difficulty breathing feeling faint swelling of the eyes, face, lips, or tongue If you experience a serious side effect, you or your doctor may send a report to the Food and Drug Administration's (FDA) MedWatch Adverse Event Reporting program online ( http://www.fda.gov/Safety/MedWatch ) or by phone (1-800-332-1088). What should I know about storage and disposal of this medication? Keep this medication in the container it came in, tightly closed, and out of reach of children. Store it at room temperature and away from excess heat and moisture (not in the bathroom). Unneeded medications should be disposed of in special ways to ensure that pets, children, and other people cannot consume them. However, you should not flush this medication down the toilet. Instead, the best way to dispose of your medication is through a medicine take-back program. Talk to your pharmacist or contact your local garbage/recycling department to learn about take-back programs in your community. See the FDA's Safe Disposal of Medicines website ( http://goo.gl/c4Rm4p ) for more information if you do not have access to a take-back program. It is important to keep all medication out of sight and reach of children as many containers (such as weekly pill minders and those for eye drops, creams, patches, and inhalers) are not child-resistant and young children can open them easily. To protect young children from poisoning, always lock safety caps and immediately place the medication in a safe location – one that is up and away and out of their sight and reach. http://www.upandaway.org What other information should I know? Keep all appointments with your doctor. Benzoyl peroxide is for external use only. Do not let benzoyl peroxide get into your eyes, nose, or mouth, and do not swallow it. Do not apply dressings, bandages, cosmetics, lotions, or other skin medications to the area being treated unless your doctor tells you. Keep benzoyl peroxide away from your hair and colored fabrics because it may bleach them. Do not let anyone else use your medication. Tell your doctor if your skin condition gets worse or does not go away. It is important for you to keep a written list of all of the prescription and nonprescription (over-the-counter) medicines you are taking, as well as any products such as vitamins, minerals, or other dietary supplements. You should bring this list with you each time you visit a doctor or if you are admitted to a hospital. It is also important information to carry with you in case of emergencies. Brand names Acne-Clear ® Acnigel ® Ben-Aqua ® Benzac ® Benzagel ® Benzashave ® BenzEFoam ® Benziq ® Binora ® Brevoxyl ® Clear By Design ® Clearasil ® Clearplex ® Clearskin ® Clinac BPO ® Del-Aqua ® Desquam ® Ethexderm BPW ® Fostex ® Inova ® Lavoclen ® Loroxide ® NeoBenz ® Neutrogena ® Oscion ® Oxy 10 ® Pacnex ® PanOxyl ® Peroderm ® Peroxin A ® Persa-Gel ® Seba-Gel ® Soluclenz ® Theroxide ® Triaz ® Vanoxide ® Zaclir ® Zeroxin ® ZoDerm ®

[ Fluoride pronounced as (floor' ide) To use the sharing features on this page, please enable JavaScript. Why is this medication prescribed? How should this medicine be used? What special precautions should I follow? What special dietary instructions should I follow? What should I do if I forget a dose? What side effects can this medication cause? What should I know about storage and disposal of this medication? In case of emergency/overdose What other information should I know? Brand names Why is this medication prescribed? Fluoride is used to prevent tooth decay. It is taken up by teeth and helps to strengthen teeth, resist acid, and block the cavity-forming action of bacteria. Fluoride usually is prescribed for children and adults whose homes have water that is not fluoridated (already has fluoride added). This medication is sometimes prescribed for other uses; ask your doctor or pharmacist for more information. How should this medicine be used? Fluoride comes as a liquid, tablet, and chewable tablet to take by mouth. It usually is taken once daily. Follow the directions on your prescription label carefully, and ask your doctor or pharmacist to explain any part you do not understand. Take fluoride exactly as directed. Do not take more or less of it or take it more often than prescribed by your doctor. The fluoride liquid may be taken straight from the bottle or mixed with cereal, fruit juice, or other foods. Use a dropper or an oral syringe to measure out your dose. Tablets may be dissolved in the mouth, chewed, or added to drinking water or fruit juice. Tablets also may be added to water for use in infant formulas or other food. Fluoride helps to strengthen teeth and prevent cavities; it is not a substitute for brushing or flossing. What special precautions should I follow? Before taking fluoride, tell your doctor and pharmacist if you are allergic to fluoride, tartrazine (a yellow dye in some processed foods and drugs), or any other drugs. tell your doctor and pharmacist what prescription and nonprescription medications you are taking, especially vitamins. Do not take calcium, magnesium, or iron supplements while taking fluoride without checking with your doctor. tell your doctor if you are pregnant, plan to become pregnant, or are breast-feeding. If you become pregnant while taking fluoride, call your doctor. tell your doctor if you are on a low-sodium or sodium-free diet. What special dietary instructions should I follow? Do not eat or drink dairy products 1 hour before or 1 hour after taking fluoride. What should I do if I forget a dose? Take the missed dose as soon as you remember it. However, if it is almost time for the next dose, skip the missed dose and continue your regular dosing schedule. Do not take a double dose to make up for a missed one. What side effects can this medication cause? Fluoride may cause side effects. Tell your doctor if this symptom is severe or does not go away: staining of teeth If you experience any of the following symptoms, call your doctor immediately: unusual increase in saliva salty or soapy taste stomach pain upset stomach vomiting diarrhea rash weakness tremor seizures If you experience a serious side effect, you or your doctor may send a report to the Food and Drug Administration's (FDA) MedWatch Adverse Event Reporting program online ( http://www.fda.gov/Safety/MedWatch ) or by phone (1-800-332-1088). What should I know about storage and disposal of this medication? Keep this medication in the container it came in, tightly closed, and out of reach of children. Store it at room temperature and away from excess heat and moisture (not in the bathroom). It is important to keep all medication out of sight and reach of children as many containers (such as weekly pill minders and those for eye drops, creams, patches, and inhalers) are not child-resistant and young children can open them easily. To protect young children from poisoning, always lock safety caps and immediately place the medication in a safe location – one that is up and away and out of their sight and reach. http://www.upandaway.org Unneeded medications should be disposed of in special ways to ensure that pets, children, and other people cannot consume them. However, you should not flush this medication down the toilet. Instead, the best way to dispose of your medication is through a medicine take-back program. Talk to your pharmacist or contact your local garbage/recycling department to learn about take-back programs in your community. See the FDA's Safe Disposal of Medicines website ( http://goo.gl/c4Rm4p ) for more information if you do not have access to a take-back program. In case of emergency/overdose In case of overdose, call the poison control helpline at 1-800-222-1222. Information is also available online at https://www.poisonhelp.org/help . If the victim has collapsed, had a seizure, has trouble breathing, or can't be awakened, immediately call emergency services at 911. What other information should I know? Keep all appointments with your doctor. Do not let anyone else take your medication. Ask your pharmacist any questions you have about refilling your prescription. It is important for you to keep a written list of all of the prescription and nonprescription (over-the-counter) medicines you are taking, as well as any products such as vitamins, minerals, or other dietary supplements. You should bring this list with you each time you visit a doctor or if you are admitted to a hospital. It is also important information to carry with you in case of emergencies. Brand names ACT ® Advance White ® Aim ® AmerFresh ® AquaFresh ® Charm-Tex ® Clinpro 5000 ® Close Up ® Colgate ® Control Rx ® Crest ® Darby ® Dawn Mist ® Denti-Care ® Epiflur ® Fluor-a-Day ® FluoriSHIELD ® Gelato ® Glister ® Kolorz ® Listerine ® Ludent ® Mentadent ® Opalescence ® Oral Defense ® Oral-B ® Ora-Line ® Ortho Guard ® Pepsodent ® Peroxi-Care ® Pro-Den Rx ® Simply White ® Vortex ® Whole Care ® Xylishield ® Zooby ®

[ Acetaminophen pronounced as (a set a mee' noe fen) To use the sharing features on this page, please enable JavaScript. Why is this medication prescribed? How should this medicine be used? Other uses for this medicine What special precautions should I follow? What special dietary instructions should I follow? What should I do if I forget a dose? What side effects can this medication cause? What should I know about storage and disposal of this medication? In case of emergency/overdose What other information should I know? Brand names Other names IMPORTANT WARNING: Taking too much acetaminophen can cause liver damage, sometimes serious enough to require liver transplantation or cause death. You might accidentally take too much acetaminophen if you do not follow the directions on the prescription or package label carefully, or if you take more than one product that contains acetaminophen. To be sure that you take acetaminophen safely, you should not take more than one product that contains acetaminophen at a time. Read the labels of all the prescription and nonprescription medications you are taking to see if they contain acetaminophen. Be aware that abbreviations such as APAP, AC, Acetaminophen, Acetaminoph, Acetaminop, Acetamin, or Acetam. may be written on the label in place of the word acetaminophen. Ask your doctor or pharmacist if you don't know if a medication that you are taking contains acetaminophen. take acetaminophen exactly as directed on the prescription or package label. Do not take more acetaminophen or take it more often than directed, even if you still have fever or pain. Ask your doctor or pharmacist if you do not know how much medication to take or how often to take your medication. Call your doctor if you still have pain or fever after taking your medication as directed. be aware that you should not take more than 4000 mg of acetaminophen per day. If you need to take more than one product that contains acetaminophen, it may be difficult for you to calculate the total amount of acetaminophen you are taking. Ask your doctor or pharmacist to help you. tell your doctor if you have or have ever had liver disease. not take acetaminophen if you drink three or more alcoholic drinks every day. Talk to your doctor about the safe use of alcohol while you are taking acetaminophen. stop taking your medication and call your doctor right away if you think you have taken too much acetaminophen, even if you feel well. Talk to your pharmacist or doctor if you have questions about the safe use of acetaminophen or acetaminophen-containing products. Why is this medication prescribed? Acetaminophen is used to relieve mild to moderate pain from headaches, muscle aches, menstrual periods, colds and sore throats, toothaches, backaches, reactions to vaccinations (shots), and to reduce fever. Acetaminophen may also be used to relieve the pain of osteoarthritis (arthritis caused by the breakdown of the lining of the joints). Acetaminophen is in a class of medications called analgesics (pain relievers) and antipyretics (fever reducers). It works by changing the way the body senses pain and by cooling the body. How should this medicine be used? Acetaminophen comes as a tablet, chewable tablet, capsule, suspension or solution (liquid), extended-release (long-acting) tablet, and orally disintegrating tablet (tablet that dissolves quickly in the mouth), to take by mouth, with or without food. Acetaminophen is available without a prescription, but your doctor may prescribe acetaminophen to treat certain conditions. Follow the directions on the package or prescription label carefully, and ask your doctor or pharmacist to explain any part you do not understand. If you are giving acetaminophen to your child, read the package label carefully to make sure that it is the right product for the age of the child. Do not give children acetaminophen products that are made for adults. Some products for adults and older children may contain too much acetaminophen for a younger child. Check the package label to find out how much medication the child needs. If you know how much your child weighs, give the dose that matches that weight on the chart. If you don't know your child's weight, give the dose that matches your child's age. Ask your child's doctor if you don't know how much medication to give your child. Acetaminophen comes in combination with other medications to treat cough and cold symptoms. Ask your doctor or pharmacist for advice on which product is best for your symptoms. Check nonprescription cough and cold product labels carefully before using two or more products at the same time. These products may contain the same active ingredient(s) and taking them together could cause you to receive an overdose. This is especially important if you will be giving cough and cold medications to a child. Swallow the extended-release tablets whole; do not split, chew, crush, or dissolve them. Place the orally disintegrating tablet ('Meltaways') in your mouth and allow it to dissolve, or chew it before swallowing. Shake the suspension well before each use to mix the medication evenly. Always use the measuring cup or syringe provided by the manufacturer to measure each dose of the solution or suspension. Do not switch dosing devices between different products; always use the device that comes in the product packaging. Stop taking acetaminophen and call your doctor if your symptoms get worse, you develop new or unexpected symptoms, including redness or swelling, your pain lasts for more than 10 days, or your fever gets worse or lasts more than 3 days. Also stop giving acetaminophen to your child and call your child's doctor if your child develops new symptoms, including redness or swelling, or if your child's pain lasts for longer than 5 days, or if a fever gets worse or lasts longer than 3 days. Do not give acetaminophen to a child who has a sore throat that is severe or does not go away, or that occurs along with fever, headache, rash, nausea, or vomiting. Call the child's doctor right away, because these symptoms may be signs of a more serious condition. Other uses for this medicine Acetaminophen may also be used in combination with aspirin and caffeine to relieve the pain associated with migraine headache. This medication is sometimes prescribed for other uses; ask your doctor or pharmacist for more information. What special precautions should I follow? Before taking acetaminophen, tell your doctor and pharmacist if you are allergic to acetaminophen, any other medications, or any of the ingredients in the product. Ask your pharmacist or check the label on the package for a list of ingredients. tell your doctor and pharmacist what prescription and nonprescription medications, vitamins, nutritional supplements, or herbal products you are taking or plan to take while taking acetaminophen. Your doctor may need to change the doses of your medications or monitor you carefully for side effects. The following nonprescription products may interact with acetaminophen: medications for pain, coughs, fever, and colds. Be sure to let your doctor and pharmacist know that you are taking these medications before you start taking acetaminophen. Do not start any of these medications while taking acetaminophen without discussing with your healthcare provider. tell your doctor if you have ever developed a rash after taking acetaminophen. tell your doctor if you are pregnant, plan to become pregnant, or are breast-feeding. If you become pregnant while taking acetaminophen, call your doctor. if you drink three or more alcoholic beverages every day, do not take acetaminophen. Ask your doctor or pharmacist about the safe use of alcoholic beverages while taking acetaminophen. you should know that combination acetaminophen products for cough and colds that contain nasal decongestants, antihistamines, cough suppressants, and expectorants should not be used in children younger than 2 years of age. Use of these medications in young children can cause serious and life-threatening effects or death. In children 2 through 11 years of age, combination cough and cold products should be used carefully and only according to the directions on the label. if you have phenylketonuria (PKU, an inherited condition in which a special diet must be followed to prevent damage to your brain that can cause severe intellectual disability), you should know that some brands of acetaminophen chewable tablets may be sweetened with aspartame, a source of phenylalanine. What special dietary instructions should I follow? Unless your doctor tells you otherwise, continue your normal diet. What should I do if I forget a dose? This medication is usually taken as needed. If your doctor has told you to take acetaminophen regularly, take the missed dose as soon as you remember it. However, if it is almost time for the next dose, skip the missed dose and continue your regular dosing schedule. Do not take a double dose to make up for a missed one. What side effects can this medication cause? Acetaminophen may cause side effects. Some side effects can be serious. If you experience any of the following symptoms, stop taking acetaminophen and call your doctor immediately or get emergency medical attention: red, peeling or blistering skin rash hives itching swelling of the face, throat, tongue, lips, eyes, hands, feet, ankles, or lower legs hoarseness difficulty breathing or swallowing Acetaminophen may cause other side effects. Call your doctor if you have any unusual problems while you are taking this medication. If you experience a serious side effect, you or your doctor may send a report to the Food and Drug Administration's (FDA) MedWatch Adverse Event Reporting program online ( http://www.fda.gov/Safety/MedWatch ) or by phone (1-800-332-1088). What should I know about storage and disposal of this medication? Keep this medication in the container it came in, tightly closed, and out of reach of children. Store it at room temperature and away from excess heat and moisture (not in the bathroom). It is important to keep all medication out of sight and reach of children as many containers (such as weekly pill minders and those for eye drops, creams, patches, and inhalers) are not child-resistant and young children can open them easily. To protect young children from poisoning, always lock safety caps and immediately place the medication in a safe location – one that is up and away and out of their sight and reach. http://www.upandaway.org Unneeded medications should be disposed of in special ways to ensure that pets, children, and other people cannot consume them. However, you should not flush this medication down the toilet. Instead, the best way to dispose of your medication is through a medicine take-back program. Talk to your pharmacist or contact your local garbage/recycling department to learn about take-back programs in your community. See the FDA's Safe Disposal of Medicines website ( http://goo.gl/c4Rm4p ) for more information if you do not have access to a take-back program. In case of emergency/overdose In case of overdose, call the poison control helpline at 1-800-222-1222. Information is also available online at https://www.poisonhelp.org/help . If the victim has collapsed, had a seizure, has trouble breathing, or can't be awakened, immediately call emergency services at 911. If someone takes more than the recommended dose of acetaminophen, get medical help immediately, even if the person does not have any symptoms. Symptoms of overdose may include the following: nausea vomiting loss of appetite sweating extreme tiredness unusual bleeding or bruising pain in the upper right part of the stomach yellowing of the skin or eyes flu-like symptoms What other information should I know? Before having any laboratory test, tell your doctor and the laboratory personnel that you are taking acetaminophen. Ask your pharmacist any questions you have about acetaminophen. It is important for you to keep a written list of all of the prescription and nonprescription (over-the-counter) medicines you are taking, as well as any products such as vitamins, minerals, or other dietary supplements. You should bring this list with you each time you visit a doctor or if you are admitted to a hospital. It is also important information to carry with you in case of emergencies. Brand names Actamin ® Feverall ® Panadol ® Tempra Quicklets ® Tylenol ®





[ Haemophilus influenzae type b (Hib) Vaccine To use the sharing features on this page, please enable JavaScript. Why get vaccinated? What is Hib vaccine? Talk with your healthcare provider What are the risks of a vaccine reaction? What if there is a serious reaction? The National Vaccine Injury Compensation Program How can I learn more? Brand names Other names Why get vaccinated? Hib vaccine can prevent Haemophilus influenzae type b (Hib) disease. Haemophilus influenzae type b can cause many different kinds of infections. These infections usually affect children under 5 years of age but can also affect adults with certain medical conditions. Hib bacteria can cause mild illness, such as ear infections or bronchitis, or they can cause severe illness, such as infections of the blood. Severe Hib infection, also called "invasive Hib disease," requires treatment in a hospital and can sometimes result in death. Before Hib vaccine, Hib disease was the leading cause of bacterial meningitis among children under 5 years old in the United States. Meningitis is an infection of the lining of the brain and spinal cord. It can lead to brain damage and deafness. Hib disease can also cause: pneumonia severe swelling in the throat, making it hard to breathe infections of the blood, joints, bones, and covering of the heart death What is Hib vaccine? Hib vaccine is usually given in 3 or 4 doses (depending on brand). Infants will usually get their first dose of Hib vaccine at 2 months of age and will usually complete the series at 12–15 months of age. Children between 12 months and 5 years of age who have not previously been completely vaccinated against Hib may need 1 or more doses of Hib vaccine. Children over 5 years old and adults usually do not receive Hib vaccine, but it may be recommended for older children or adults whose spleen is damaged or has been removed, including people with sickle cell disease, before surgery to remove the spleen, or following a bone marrow transplant. Hib vaccine may also be recommended for people 5 through 18 years old with HIV. Hib vaccine may be given as a stand-alone vaccine, or as part of a combination vaccine Hib vaccine may be given as a stand-alone vaccine, or as part of a combination vaccine (a type of vaccine that combines more than one vaccine together into one shot). Hib vaccine may be given at the same time as other vaccines. Talk with your healthcare provider Tell your vaccination provider if the person getting the vaccine: Has had an allergic reaction after a previous dose of Hib vaccine, or has any severe, life-threatening allergies In some cases, your health care provider may decide to postpone Hib vaccination until a future visit. People minor illnesses, such as a cold, may be vaccinated. People who are moderately or severely ill should usually wait until they recover before getting the Hib vaccine Your health care provider can give you more information. What are the risks of a vaccine reaction? redness, warmth, or swelling where the shot was given People sometimes faint after a medical procedure, including vaccination. Tell your provider if you feel dizzy, or have vision changes or ringing in the ears. As with any medicine, there is a very remote chance of a vaccine causing a severe allergic reaction, other serious injury, or death. What if there is a serious reaction? An allergic reaction could occur after the vaccinated person leaves the clinic. If you see signs of a severe allergic reaction (hives, swelling of the face and throat, difficulty breathing, a fast heartbeat, dizziness, or weakness), call 9-1-1 and get the person to the nearest hospital. For other signs that concern you, call your health care provider. Adverse reactions should be reported to the Vaccine Adverse Event Reporting System (VAERS). Your health care provider will usually file this report, or you can do it yourself. Visit the VAERS website at http://www.vaers.hhs.gov or call 1-800-822-7967 . VAERS is only for reporting reactions, and VAERS does not give medical advice. The National Vaccine Injury Compensation Program The National Vaccine Injury Compensation Program (VICP) is a federal program that was created to compensate people who may have been injured by certain vaccines. Claims regarding alleged injury or death due to vaccination have a time limit for filing, which may be as short as two years. Visit the VICP website at http://www.hrsa.gov/vaccinecompensation or call 1-800-338-2382 to learn about the program and about filing a claim. How can I learn more? Ask your healthcare provider. Call your local or state health department. Visit the website of the Food and Drug Administration (FDA) for vaccine package inserts and additional information at http://www.fda.gov/vaccines-blood-biologics/vaccines . Contact the Centers for Disease Control and Prevention (CDC): Call 1-800-232-4636 ( 1-800-CDC-INFO ) or visit CDC's website at http://www.cdc.gov/vaccines . Haemophilus influenzae type b (Hib) Vaccine Information Statement. U.S. Department of Health and Human Services/Centers for Disease Control and Prevention National Immunization Program. 8/6/2021. Brand names ActHIB ® Hiberix ® Liquid Pedvax HIB ®





[ Chlorpheniramine pronounced as (klor fen ir' a meen)  Chlorpheniramine relieves red, itchy, watery eyes; sneezing; itchy nose or throat; and runny nose caused by allergies, hay fever, and the common cold. Chlorpheniramine helps control the symptoms of cold or allergies but will not treat the cause of the symptoms or speed recovery. Chlorpheniramine is in a class of medications called antihistamines. It works by blocking the action of histamine, a substance in the body that causes allergic symptoms. How should this medicine be used? Chlorpheniramine comes as a tablet, a capsule, an extended-release (long-acting) tablet and capsule, a chewable tablet, and a liquid to take by mouth. The regular capsules and tablets, chewable tablets, and liquid are usually taken every 4 to 6 hours as needed. The extended-release (long-acting) tablets and capsules are usually taken twice a day in the morning and evening as needed. Follow the directions on your prescription label carefully, and ask your doctor or pharmacist to explain any part you do not understand. Take chlorpheniramine exactly as directed. Do not take more or less of it or take it more often than prescribed by your doctor. Chlorpheniramine comes alone and in combination with fever and pain reducers, expectorants, cough suppressants, and decongestants. Ask your doctor or pharmacist for advice on which product is best for your symptoms. Check nonprescription cough and cold product labels carefully before using 2 or more products at the same time. These products may contain the same active ingredient(s) and taking them together could cause you to receive an overdose.This is especially important if you will be giving cough and cold medications to a child. Nonprescription cough and cold combination products, including products that contain chlorpheniramine, can cause serious side effects or death in young children. Do not give these products to children younger than 4 years of age. If you give these products to children 4-11 years of age, use caution and follow the package directions carefully. If you are giving chlorpheniramine or a combination product that contains chlorpheniramine to a child, read the package label carefully to be sure that it is the right product for a child of that age. Do not give chlorpheniramine products that are made for adults to children. Before you give a chlorpheniramine product to a child, check the package label to find out how much medication the child should receive. Give the dose that matches the child's age on the chart. Ask the child's doctor if you don't know how much medication to give the child. If you are taking the liquid, do not use a household spoon to measure your dose. Use the measuring spoon or cup that came with the medication or use a spoon made especially for measuring medication. If you are using the extended-release tablets or capsules, swallow them whole. Do not break, crush, chew, or open them. Other uses for this medicine This medication is sometimes prescribed for other uses; ask your doctor or pharmacist for more information. What special precautions should I follow? Before taking chlorpheniramine, tell your doctor and pharmacist if you are allergic to chlorpheniramine, any other medications, or any of the ingredients in the chlorpheniramine product you plan to use. Check the package label for a list of the ingredients. tell your doctor and pharmacist what prescription and nonprescription medications, vitamins, nutritional supplements, and herbal products you are taking or plan to take. Be sure to mention any of the following: other medications for colds, hay fever, or allergies; medications for anxiety, depression, or seizures; muscle relaxants; narcotic medications for pain; sedatives; sleeping pills; and tranquilizers. tell your doctor if you have or have ever had asthma, emphysema, chronic bronchitis, or other types of lung disease; glaucoma (a condition in which increased pressure in the eye can lead to gradual loss of vision); ulcers; diabetes; difficulty urinating (due to an enlarged prostate gland); heart disease; high blood pressure; seizures; or an overactive thyroid gland. tell your doctor if you are pregnant, plan to become pregnant, or are breast-feeding. If you become pregnant while taking chlorpheniramine, call your doctor. if you are having surgery, including dental surgery, tell the doctor or dentist that you are taking chlorpheniramine. you should know that this medication may make you drowsy. Do not drive a car or operate machinery until you know how this medication affects you. ask your doctor about the safe use of alcohol while you are taking chlorpheniramine. Alcohol can make the side effects of chlorpheniramine worse. talk to your doctor about the risks and benefits of taking chlorpheniramine if you are 65 years of age or older. Older adults should not usually take chlorpheniramine because it is not as safe or effective as other medications that can be used to treat the same condition. What special dietary instructions should I follow? Unless your doctor tells you otherwise, continue your normal diet. What should I do if I forget a dose? Chlorpheniramine is usually taken as needed. If your doctor has told you to take chlorpheniramine regularly, take the missed dose as soon as you remember it. However, if it is almost time for the next dose, skip the missed dose and continue your regular dosing schedule. Do not take a double dose to make up for a missed one. What side effects can this medication cause? Chlorpheniramine may cause side effects. Tell your doctor if any of these symptoms are severe or do not go away: drowsiness dry mouth, nose, and throat nausea vomiting loss of appetite constipation headache increased chest congestion Some side effects can be serious. If you experience any of the following symptoms, call your doctor immediately: vision problems difficulty urinating If you experience a serious side effect, you or your doctor may send a report to the Food and Drug Administration's (FDA) MedWatch Adverse Event Reporting program online ( http://www.fda.gov/Safety/MedWatch ) or by phone (1-800-332-1088). What should I know about storage and disposal of this medication? Keep this medication in the container it came in, tightly closed, and out of reach of children. Store it at room temperature and away from excess heat and moisture (not in the bathroom). It is important to keep all medication out of sight and reach of children as many containers (such as weekly pill minders and those for eye drops, creams, patches, and inhalers) are not child-resistant and young children can open them easily. To protect young children from poisoning, always lock safety caps and immediately place the medication in a safe location – one that is up and away and out of their sight and reach. http://www.upandaway.org Unneeded medications should be disposed of in special ways to ensure that pets, children, and other people cannot consume them. However, you should not flush this medication down the toilet. Instead, the best way to dispose of your medication is through a medicine take-back program. Talk to your pharmacist or contact your local garbage/recycling department to learn about take-back programs in your community. See the FDA's Safe Disposal of Medicines website ( http://goo.gl/c4Rm4p ) for more information if you do not have access to a take-back program. In case of emergency/overdose In case of overdose, call the poison control helpline at 1-800-222-1222. Information is also available online at https://www.poisonhelp.org/help . If the victim has collapsed, had a seizure, has trouble breathing, or can't be awakened, immediately call emergency services at 911. What other information should I know? Ask your pharmacist any questions you have about chlorpheniramine. It is important for you to keep a written list of all of the prescription and nonprescription (over-the-counter) medicines you are taking, as well as any products such as vitamins, minerals, or other dietary supplements. You should bring this list with you each time you visit a doctor or if you are admitted to a hospital. It is also important information to carry with you in case of emergencies. Brand names Aller-Chlor ® Aller-Chlor ® Syrup Chlo-Amine ® Chlor-Trimeton ® 12 Hour Allergy Chlor-Trimeton ® 4 Hour Allergy Chlor-Trimeton ® 8 Hour Allergy Chlor-Trimeton ® Allergy Syrup Polaramine ® Polaramine ® Repetabs ® Polaramine ® Syrup Teldrin ® Allergy

[ Phenylephrine pronounced as (fen il ef' rin)  Phenylephrine is used to relieve nasal discomfort caused by colds, allergies, and hay fever. It is also used to relieve sinus congestion and pressure. Phenylephrine will relieve symptoms but will not treat the cause of the symptoms or speed recovery. Phenylephrine is in a class of medications called nasal decongestants. It works by reducing swelling of the blood vessels in the nasal passages. How should this medicine be used? Phenylephrine comes as a tablet, a liquid, or a dissolving strip to take by mouth. It is usually taken every 4 hours as needed. Follow the directions on your prescription label or the package label carefully, and ask your doctor or pharmacist to explain any part you do not understand. Take phenylephrine exactly as directed. Do not take more or less of it or take it more often than prescribed by your doctor or directed on the label. Phenylephrine comes alone and in combination with other medications. Ask your doctor or pharmacist for advice on which product is best for your symptoms. Check nonprescription cough and cold product labels carefully before using two or more products at the same time. These products may contain the same active ingredient(s) and taking them together could cause you to receive an overdose. This is especially important if you will be giving cough and cold medications to a child. Nonprescription cough and cold combination products, including products that contain phenylephrine, can cause serious side effects or death in young children. Do not give these products to children younger than 4 years of age. If you give these products to children 4 to 11 years of age, use caution and follow the package directions carefully. If you are giving phenylephrine or a combination product that contains phenylephrine to a child, read the package label carefully to be sure that it is the right product for a child of that age. Do not give phenylephrine products that are made for adults to children. Before you give a phenylephrine product to a child, check the package label to find out how much medication the child should receive. Give the dose that matches the child's age on the chart. Ask the child's doctor if you don't know how much medication to give the child. If you are taking the liquid, do not use a household spoon to measure your dose. Use the measuring spoon or cup that came with the medication or use a spoon made especially for measuring medication. If your symptoms do not get better within 7 days or if you have a fever, stop taking phenylephrine and call your doctor. If you are taking the dissolving strips, place one strip on your tongue and allow it to dissolve. Other uses for this medicine This medication may be prescribed for other uses; ask your doctor or pharmacist for more information. What special precautions should I follow? Before taking phenylephrine, tell your doctor and pharmacist if you are allergic to phenylephrine, any other medications, or any of the ingredients in phenylephrine preparations. do not take phenylephrine if you are taking a monoamine oxidase (MAO) inhibitor, such as isocarboxazid (Marplan), phenelzine (Nardil), selegiline (Eldepryl, Emsam, Zelapar), and tranylcypromine (Parnate), or if you have stopped taking one of these medications within the past 2 weeks. tell your doctor and pharmacist what other prescription and nonprescription medications, vitamins, nutritional supplements, and herbal products you are taking or plan to take. tell your doctor if you have or have ever had high blood pressure, diabetes, trouble urinating because of an enlarged prostate gland, or thyroid or heart disease. tell your doctor if you are pregnant, plan to become pregnant, or are breast-feeding. If you become pregnant while taking phenylephrine, call your doctor. if you are having surgery, including dental surgery, tell the doctor or dentist that you are taking phenylephrine. if you have phenylketonuria (PKU, an inherited condition in which a special diet must be followed to prevent damage to your brain that can cause severe intellectual disability), you should know that some phenylephrine products may be sweetened with aspartame, a source of phenylalanine. What special dietary instructions should I follow? Unless your doctor tells you otherwise, continue your normal diet. What should I do if I forget a dose? This medication is usually taken as needed. If your doctor has told you to take phenylephrine regularly, take the missed dose as soon as you remember it. However, if it is almost time for the next dose, skip the missed dose and continue your regular dosing schedule. Do not take a double dose to make up for a missed one. What side effects can this medication cause? Phenylephrine may cause side effects. Some side effects can be serious. If you experience any of these symptoms, stop using phenylephrine and call your doctor: nervousness dizziness sleeplessness Phenylephrine may cause other side effects. Call your doctor if you have any unusual problems while taking this medication. If you experience a serious side effect, you or your doctor may send a report to the Food and Drug Administration's (FDA) MedWatch Adverse Event Reporting program online ( http://www.fda.gov/Safety/MedWatch ) or by phone (1-800-332-1088). What should I know about storage and disposal of this medication? Keep this medication in the container it came in, tightly closed, and out of reach of children. Store it at room temperature and away from excess heat and moisture (not in the bathroom). It is important to keep all medication out of sight and reach of children as many containers (such as weekly pill minders and those for eye drops, creams, patches, and inhalers) are not child-resistant and young children can open them easily. To protect young children from poisoning, always lock safety caps and immediately place the medication in a safe location – one that is up and away and out of their sight and reach. http://www.upandaway.org Unneeded medications should be disposed of in special ways to ensure that pets, children, and other people cannot consume them. However, you should not flush this medication down the toilet. Instead, the best way to dispose of your medication is through a medicine take-back program. Talk to your pharmacist or contact your local garbage/recycling department to learn about take-back programs in your community. See the FDA's Safe Disposal of Medicines website ( http://goo.gl/c4Rm4p ) for more information if you do not have access to a take-back program. In case of emergency/overdose In case of overdose, call the poison control helpline at 1-800-222-1222. Information is also available online at https://www.poisonhelp.org/help . If the victim has collapsed, had a seizure, has trouble breathing, or can't be awakened, immediately call emergency services at 911. What other information should I know? Ask your pharmacist any questions you have about phenylephrine. It is important for you to keep a written list of all of the prescription and nonprescription (over-the-counter) medicines you are taking, as well as any products such as vitamins, minerals, or other dietary supplements. You should bring this list with you each time you visit a doctor or if you are admitted to a hospital. It is also important information to carry with you in case of emergencies. Brand names Children's Sudafed PE Nasal Decongestant ® Lusonal ® § PediaCare Children's Decongestant ® Sudafed PE Congestion ® Suphedrin PE ®

[ Chlorpheniramine pronounced as (klor fen ir' a meen)  Chlorpheniramine relieves red, itchy, watery eyes; sneezing; itchy nose or throat; and runny nose caused by allergies, hay fever, and the common cold. Chlorpheniramine helps control the symptoms of cold or allergies but will not treat the cause of the symptoms or speed recovery. Chlorpheniramine is in a class of medications called antihistamines. It works by blocking the action of histamine, a substance in the body that causes allergic symptoms. How should this medicine be used? Chlorpheniramine comes as a tablet, a capsule, an extended-release (long-acting) tablet and capsule, a chewable tablet, and a liquid to take by mouth. The regular capsules and tablets, chewable tablets, and liquid are usually taken every 4 to 6 hours as needed. The extended-release (long-acting) tablets and capsules are usually taken twice a day in the morning and evening as needed. Follow the directions on your prescription label carefully, and ask your doctor or pharmacist to explain any part you do not understand. Take chlorpheniramine exactly as directed. Do not take more or less of it or take it more often than prescribed by your doctor. Chlorpheniramine comes alone and in combination with fever and pain reducers, expectorants, cough suppressants, and decongestants. Ask your doctor or pharmacist for advice on which product is best for your symptoms. Check nonprescription cough and cold product labels carefully before using 2 or more products at the same time. These products may contain the same active ingredient(s) and taking them together could cause you to receive an overdose.This is especially important if you will be giving cough and cold medications to a child. Nonprescription cough and cold combination products, including products that contain chlorpheniramine, can cause serious side effects or death in young children. Do not give these products to children younger than 4 years of age. If you give these products to children 4-11 years of age, use caution and follow the package directions carefully. If you are giving chlorpheniramine or a combination product that contains chlorpheniramine to a child, read the package label carefully to be sure that it is the right product for a child of that age. Do not give chlorpheniramine products that are made for adults to children. Before you give a chlorpheniramine product to a child, check the package label to find out how much medication the child should receive. Give the dose that matches the child's age on the chart. Ask the child's doctor if you don't know how much medication to give the child. If you are taking the liquid, do not use a household spoon to measure your dose. Use the measuring spoon or cup that came with the medication or use a spoon made especially for measuring medication. If you are using the extended-release tablets or capsules, swallow them whole. Do not break, crush, chew, or open them. Other uses for this medicine This medication is sometimes prescribed for other uses; ask your doctor or pharmacist for more information. What special precautions should I follow? Before taking chlorpheniramine, tell your doctor and pharmacist if you are allergic to chlorpheniramine, any other medications, or any of the ingredients in the chlorpheniramine product you plan to use. Check the package label for a list of the ingredients. tell your doctor and pharmacist what prescription and nonprescription medications, vitamins, nutritional supplements, and herbal products you are taking or plan to take. Be sure to mention any of the following: other medications for colds, hay fever, or allergies; medications for anxiety, depression, or seizures; muscle relaxants; narcotic medications for pain; sedatives; sleeping pills; and tranquilizers. tell your doctor if you have or have ever had asthma, emphysema, chronic bronchitis, or other types of lung disease; glaucoma (a condition in which increased pressure in the eye can lead to gradual loss of vision); ulcers; diabetes; difficulty urinating (due to an enlarged prostate gland); heart disease; high blood pressure; seizures; or an overactive thyroid gland. tell your doctor if you are pregnant, plan to become pregnant, or are breast-feeding. If you become pregnant while taking chlorpheniramine, call your doctor. if you are having surgery, including dental surgery, tell the doctor or dentist that you are taking chlorpheniramine. you should know that this medication may make you drowsy. Do not drive a car or operate machinery until you know how this medication affects you. ask your doctor about the safe use of alcohol while you are taking chlorpheniramine. Alcohol can make the side effects of chlorpheniramine worse. talk to your doctor about the risks and benefits of taking chlorpheniramine if you are 65 years of age or older. Older adults should not usually take chlorpheniramine because it is not as safe or effective as other medications that can be used to treat the same condition. What special dietary instructions should I follow? Unless your doctor tells you otherwise, continue your normal diet. What should I do if I forget a dose? Chlorpheniramine is usually taken as needed. If your doctor has told you to take chlorpheniramine regularly, take the missed dose as soon as you remember it. However, if it is almost time for the next dose, skip the missed dose and continue your regular dosing schedule. Do not take a double dose to make up for a missed one. What side effects can this medication cause? Chlorpheniramine may cause side effects. Tell your doctor if any of these symptoms are severe or do not go away: drowsiness dry mouth, nose, and throat nausea vomiting loss of appetite constipation headache increased chest congestion Some side effects can be serious. If you experience any of the following symptoms, call your doctor immediately: vision problems difficulty urinating If you experience a serious side effect, you or your doctor may send a report to the Food and Drug Administration's (FDA) MedWatch Adverse Event Reporting program online ( http://www.fda.gov/Safety/MedWatch ) or by phone (1-800-332-1088). What should I know about storage and disposal of this medication? Keep this medication in the container it came in, tightly closed, and out of reach of children. Store it at room temperature and away from excess heat and moisture (not in the bathroom). It is important to keep all medication out of sight and reach of children as many containers (such as weekly pill minders and those for eye drops, creams, patches, and inhalers) are not child-resistant and young children can open them easily. To protect young children from poisoning, always lock safety caps and immediately place the medication in a safe location – one that is up and away and out of their sight and reach. http://www.upandaway.org Unneeded medications should be disposed of in special ways to ensure that pets, children, and other people cannot consume them. However, you should not flush this medication down the toilet. Instead, the best way to dispose of your medication is through a medicine take-back program. Talk to your pharmacist or contact your local garbage/recycling department to learn about take-back programs in your community. See the FDA's Safe Disposal of Medicines website ( http://goo.gl/c4Rm4p ) for more information if you do not have access to a take-back program. In case of emergency/overdose In case of overdose, call the poison control helpline at 1-800-222-1222. Information is also available online at https://www.poisonhelp.org/help . If the victim has collapsed, had a seizure, has trouble breathing, or can't be awakened, immediately call emergency services at 911. What other information should I know? Ask your pharmacist any questions you have about chlorpheniramine. It is important for you to keep a written list of all of the prescription and nonprescription (over-the-counter) medicines you are taking, as well as any products such as vitamins, minerals, or other dietary supplements. You should bring this list with you each time you visit a doctor or if you are admitted to a hospital. It is also important information to carry with you in case of emergencies. Brand names Aller-Chlor ® Aller-Chlor ® Syrup Chlo-Amine ® Chlor-Trimeton ® 12 Hour Allergy Chlor-Trimeton ® 4 Hour Allergy Chlor-Trimeton ® 8 Hour Allergy Chlor-Trimeton ® Allergy Syrup Polaramine ® Polaramine ® Repetabs ® Polaramine ® Syrup Teldrin ® Allergy









[ Estrogen and Progestin (Hormone Replacement Therapy) pronounced as (ess' troe jen) (pro jes' tin) To use the sharing features on this page, please enable JavaScript. Why is this medication prescribed? How should this medicine be used? Other uses for this medicine What special precautions should I follow? What special dietary instructions should I follow? What should I do if I forget a dose? What side effects can this medication cause? What should I know about storage and disposal of this medication? In case of emergency/overdose What other information should I know? Brand names Other names IMPORTANT WARNING: Hormone replacement therapy may increase the risk of heart attack, stroke, breast cancer, and blood clots in the lungs and legs. Tell your doctor if you smoke and if you have or have ever had breast lumps or cancer; a heart attack; a stroke; blood clots; high blood pressure; high blood levels of cholesterol or fats; or diabetes. If you are having surgery or will be on bedrest, talk to your doctor about stopping estrogen and progestin at least 4 to 6 weeks before the surgery or bedrest. If you experience any of the following side effects, call your doctor immediately: sudden, severe headache; sudden, severe vomiting; sudden partial or complete loss of vision; speech problems; dizziness or faintness; weakness or numbness of an arm or a leg; crushing chest pain or chest heaviness; coughing up blood; sudden shortness of breath; or calf pain. Talk to your doctor about the risks and benefits of taking estrogen and progestin. Why is this medication prescribed? Combinations of estrogen and progestin are used to treat certain symptoms of menopause. Estrogen and progestin are two female sex hormones. Hormone replacement therapy works by replacing estrogen hormone that is no longer being made by the body. Estrogen reduces feelings of warmth in the upper body and periods of sweating and heat (hot flashes), vaginal symptoms (itching, burning, and dryness) and difficulty with urination, but it does not relieve other symptoms of menopause such as nervousness or depression. Estrogen also prevents thinning of the bones (osteoporosis) in menopausal women. Progestin is added to estrogen in hormone replacement therapy to reduce the risk of uterine cancer in women who still have their uterus. How should this medicine be used? Hormone replacement therapy comes as a tablet to take by mouth. It is usually taken once a day. To help you remember to take hormone replacement therapy, take it around the same time every day. Follow the directions on your prescription label carefully, and ask your doctor or pharmacist to explain any part you do not understand. Take this medication exactly as directed. Do not take more or less of it or take it more often than prescribed by your doctor. Do not stop taking this medication without talking to your doctor. Activella, FemHrt, and Prempro come as tablets containing estrogen and progestin. Take one tablet every day. Ortho-Prefest comes in a blister card containing 30 tablets. Take one pink tablet (containing only estrogen) once daily for 3 days, then take one white tablet (containing estrogen and progestin) once daily for 3 days. Repeat this process until you finish all the tablets on the card. Begin a new blister card the day after you finish the last one. Premphase comes in a dispenser containing 28 tablets. Take one maroon tablet (containing only estrogen) once daily on days 1 to 14, and take one light-blue tablet (containing estrogen and progestin) once daily on days 15 to 28. Begin a new dispenser the day after you finish the last one. Before taking hormone replacement therapy, ask your pharmacist or doctor for a copy of the manufacturer's information for the patient and read it carefully. Other uses for this medicine This medication may be prescribed for other uses; ask your doctor or pharmacist for more information. What special precautions should I follow? Before taking hormone replacement therapy, tell your doctor and pharmacist if you are allergic to estrogen, progestin, or any other medications. Tell your doctor and pharmacist what prescription and nonprescription medications, vitamins, nutritional supplements, and herbal products you are taking or plan to take while taking hormone replacement therapy. Your doctor may need to change the doses of your medications or monitor you carefully for side effects. in addition to the conditions listed in the IMPORTANT WARNING section, tell your doctor if you have had a hysterectomy and if you have or have ever had asthma; toxemia (high blood pressure during pregnancy); depression; epilepsy (seizures); migraine headaches; liver, heart, gallbladder, or kidney disease; jaundice (yellowing of the skin or eyes); vaginal bleeding between menstrual periods; and excessive weight gain and fluid retention (bloating) during the menstrual cycle. tell your doctor if you are pregnant, plan to become pregnant, or are breast-feeding. If you become pregnant while taking this medication, call your doctor immediately. Estrogen and progestin may harm the fetus. if you are having surgery, including dental surgery, tell the doctor or dentist you are taking hormone replacement therapy. tell your doctor if you smoke cigarettes. Smoking while taking this medication may increase your risk of serious side effects such as blood clots and stroke. Smoking also may decrease the effectiveness of this medication. tell your doctor and pharmacist if you wear contact lenses. If you notice changes in vision or ability to wear your lenses while taking hormone replacement therapy, see an eye doctor. What special dietary instructions should I follow? Ask your doctor about taking calcium supplements if you are taking this medication for prevention of osteoporosis. Follow all dietary and exercise recommendations, as both can help prevent bone disease. What should I do if I forget a dose? Take the missed dose as soon as you remember it. However, if it is almost time for the next dose, skip the missed dose and continue your regular dosing schedule. Do not take a double dose to make up for a missed one. What side effects can this medication cause? Hormone replacement therapy may cause side effects. Tell your doctor if any of these symptoms are severe or do not go away: headache upset stomach vomiting stomach cramps or bloating diarrhea appetite and weight changes changes in sex drive or ability nervousness brown or black skin patches acne swelling of hands, feet, or lower legs (fluid retention) bleeding or spotting between menstrual periods changes in menstrual flow breast tenderness, enlargement, or discharge difficulty wearing contact lenses Some side effects can be serious. The following symptoms are uncommon, but if you experience any of them or those listed in the IMPORTANT WARNING section, call your doctor immediately: double vision severe abdominal pain yellowing of the skin or eyes severe mental depression unusual bleeding loss of appetite rash extreme tiredness, weakness, or lack of energy fever dark-colored urine light-colored stool Hormone replacement therapy may increase the risk of developing endometrial cancer and gallbladder disease. Talk to your doctor about the risks of taking this medication. Hormone replacement therapy may cause other side effects. Call your doctor if you have any unusual problems while taking this medication. If you experience a serious side effect, you or your doctor may send a report to the Food and Drug Administration's (FDA) MedWatch Adverse Event Reporting program online ( http://www.fda.gov/Safety/MedWatch ) or by phone (1-800-332-1088). What should I know about storage and disposal of this medication? Keep this medication in the container it came in, tightly closed, and out of reach of children. Store it at room temperature and away from heat and moisture (not in the bathroom). Unneeded medications should be disposed of in special ways to ensure that pets, children, and other people cannot consume them. However, you should not flush this medication down the toilet. Instead, the best way to dispose of your medication is through a medicine take-back program. Talk to your pharmacist or contact your local garbage/recycling department to learn about take-back programs in your community. See the FDA's Safe Disposal of Medicines website ( http://goo.gl/c4Rm4p ) for more information if you do not have access to a take-back program. It is important to keep all medication out of sight and reach of children as many containers (such as weekly pill minders and those for eye drops, creams, patches, and inhalers) are not child-resistant and young children can open them easily. To protect young children from poisoning, always lock safety caps and immediately place the medication in a safe location – one that is up and away and out of their sight and reach. http://www.upandaway.org In case of emergency/overdose In case of overdose, call the poison control helpline at 1-800-222-1222. Information is also available online at https://www.poisonhelp.org/help . If the victim has collapsed, had a seizure, has trouble breathing, or can't be awakened, immediately call emergency services at 911. Symptoms of overdose may include: upset stomach vomiting What other information should I know? Keep all appointments with your doctor and the laboratory. You should have a complete physical exam, including blood pressure measurements, breast and pelvic exams, and a Pap test at least yearly. Follow your doctor's directions for examining your breasts; report any lumps immediately. If you are taking hormone replacement therapy to treat symptoms of menopause, your doctor will check every 3 to 6 months to see if you still need this medication. If you are taking this medication to prevent thinning of the bones (osteoporosis), you will take it for a longer period of time. Before you have any laboratory tests, tell the laboratory personnel that you take hormone replacement therapy, because this medication may interfere with some laboratory tests. Do not let anyone else take your medication. Ask your pharmacist any questions you have about refilling your prescription. It is important for you to keep a written list of all of the prescription and nonprescription (over-the-counter) medicines you are taking, as well as any products such as vitamins, minerals, or other dietary supplements. You should bring this list with you each time you visit a doctor or if you are admitted to a hospital. It is also important information to carry with you in case of emergencies. Brand names Bijuva ® (as a combination product containing Estradiol, Progesterone)

[ Risedronate pronounced as (ris ed' roe nate)  Risedronate tablets and delayed-release (long-acting tablets) are used to prevent and treat osteoporosis (a condition in which the bones become thin and weak and break easily) in women who have undergone menopause (''change of life,'' end of menstrual periods). Risedronate tablets are also used to treat osteoporosis in men, and in men and women who are taking glucocorticoids (a type of corticosteroid medication that may cause osteoporosis). Risedronate tablets are also used to treat Paget's disease of bone (a condition in which the bones are soft and weak and may be deformed, painful, or easily broken). Risedronate is in a class of medications called bisphosphonates. It works by preventing bone breakdown and increasing bone density (thickness). How should this medicine be used? Risedronate comes as a tablet and a delayed-release tablet to take by mouth. The delayed-release tablets are usually taken once a week in the morning, immediately after breakfast. The tablets are usually taken on an empty stomach once a day in the morning, once a week in the morning, once monthly in the morning, or once monthly for two mornings in a row depending on your condition and the dosage prescribed by your doctor. If you are taking risedronate once a week, once monthly, or once monthly for 2 days in a row, take it on the same day every week or month or the same 2 days in a row every month. Follow the directions on your prescription label carefully, and ask your doctor or pharmacist to explain any part you do not understand. Take risedronate exactly as directed. Do not take more or less of it or take it more often or for a longer period of time than prescribed by your doctor. Risedronate may not work properly and may damage the esophagus (tube that connects the mouth and stomach) or cause sores in the mouth if it is not taken according to the following instructions. Tell your doctor if you do not understand, you do not think you will remember, or you are unable to follow these instructions: You must take risedronate tablets immediately after you get out of bed in the morning and before you eat or drink anything. You must take risedronate delayed-release tablets immediately after breakfast. Never take risedronate at bedtime or before you wake up and get out of bed for the day. Swallow the tablets with a full glass (6 to 8 ounces [180 to 240 mL]) of plain water while you are sitting or standing. Swallow the delayed-release tablets with at least 4 ounces (120 mL) of plain water while you are sitting or standing. Never take risedronate with tea, coffee, juice, mineral water, milk, other dairy drinks, or any liquid other than plain water. Swallow the tablets and delayed-release tablets whole. Do not split, chew, or crush them. Do not suck on the tablets or hold them in your mouth for any length of time. After you take risedronate, do not eat, drink, or take any other medications for at least 30 minutes. Do not lie down for at least 30 minutes after you take risedronate. Sit upright or stand upright until at least 30 minutes have passed. Risedronate controls osteoporosis and Paget's disease of bone but does not cure these conditions. Risedronate helps to treat and prevent osteoporosis only as long as it is taken regularly. Continue to take risedronate even if you feel well. Do not stop taking risedronate without talking to your doctor, but talk to your doctor from time to time about whether you still need to take risedronate. Your doctor or pharmacist will give you the manufacturer's patient information sheet (Medication Guide) when you begin treatment with risedronate and each time you refill your prescription. Read the information carefully and ask your doctor or pharmacist if you have any questions. You can also visit the Food and Drug Administration (FDA) website ( http://www.fda.gov/Drugs/DrugSafety/ucm085729.htm ) or the manufacturer's website to obtain the Medication Guide. Other uses for this medicine This medication may be prescribed for other uses; ask your doctor or pharmacist for more information. What special precautions should I follow? Before taking risedronate, tell your doctor and pharmacist if you are allergic to risedronate, any other medications, or any of the ingredients in risedronate tablets or delayed-release tablets. Ask your pharmacist or check the Medication Guide for a list of the ingredients tell your doctor and pharmacist what prescription and nonprescription medications, vitamins, nutritional supplements, and herbal products you are taking or plan to take. Be sure to mention any of the following: angiogenesis inhibitors such as bevacizumab (Avastin), everolimus (Afinitor, Zortress), pazopanib (Votrient), sorafenib (Nexavar), or sunitinib (Sutent); aspirin and other nonsteroidal anti-inflammatory drugs (NSAIDs) such as ibuprofen (Advil, Ibu-Tab, Motrin, others) and naproxen (Aleve, Naprelan, Naprosyn, others); cancer chemotherapy; or oral steroids such as dexamethasone, methylprednisolone (Medrol), and prednisone (Rayos). If you are taking the delayed-release tablets, you should also tell your doctor if you are taking an H 2 blocker such as cimetidine, famotidine (Pepcid), nizatidine (Axid), and ranitidine (Zantac) or a proton pump inhibitor such as esomeprazole (Nexium, in Vimovo), lansoprazole (Prevacid), omeprazole (Prilosec, Zegerid), pantoprazole (Protonix), and rabeprazole (AcipHex). Your doctor may need to change the doses of your medications or monitor you carefully for side effects. you should know that Actonel and Atelvia both contain risedronate. You cannot take both of these medications at the same time. if you are taking any other oral medications including vitamins, supplements, or antacids, take them at least 30 minutes after you take risedronate. tell your doctor if you have or have ever had a low level of calcium in your blood or any problems with your esophagus and if you are unable to sit upright or stand upright for at least 30 minutes. Your doctor may tell you that you should not take risedronate. tell your doctor if you are undergoing radiation therapy; if you have or have ever had difficulty swallowing; heartburn; ulcers or other problems with your stomach; anemia (condition in which the red blood cells do not bring enough oxygen to all the parts of the body); cancer; any type of infection, especially in your mouth; problems with your mouth, teeth, or gums; any condition that stops your blood from clotting normally; or dental or kidney disease. tell your doctor if you are pregnant or are breastfeeding. Also tell your doctor if you plan to become pregnant at any time in the future, because risedronate may remain in your body for years after you stop taking it. Call your doctor if you become pregnant during or after your treatment with risedronate. you should know that risedronate may cause severe bone, muscle, or joint pain. You may begin to feel this pain within days, months, or years after you first take risedronate. Although this type of pain may begin after you have taken risedronate for some time, it is important for you and your doctor to realize that it may be caused by risedronate. Call your doctor right away if you experience severe pain at any time during your treatment with risedronate. Your doctor may tell you to stop taking risedronate and your pain may go away after you stop taking the medication. you should know that risedronate may cause osteonecrosis of the jaw (ONJ, a serious condition of the jaw bone), especially if you have dental surgery or treatment while you are taking the medication. A dentist should examine your teeth and perform any needed treatments, including cleaning or fixing ill-fitted dentures, before you start to take risedronate. Be sure to brush your teeth and clean your mouth properly while you are taking risedronate. Talk to your doctor before having any dental treatments while you are taking this medication. talk to your doctor about other things you can do to prevent osteoporosis from developing or worsening. Your doctor will probably tell you to avoid smoking and drinking large amounts of alcohol and to follow a regular program of weight-bearing exercise. What special dietary instructions should I follow? You should eat plenty of foods that are rich in calcium and vitamin D while you are taking risedronate. Your doctor will tell you which foods are good sources of these nutrients and how many servings you need each day. If you find it difficult to eat enough of these foods, tell your doctor. In that case, your doctor can prescribe or recommend a supplement. What should I do if I forget a dose? If you miss a dose of once-daily risedronate, do not take it later in the day. Skip the missed dose and take one dose the next morning as usual. If you miss a dose of once-weekly risedronate, do not take it later in the day. Take one dose the morning after you remember. Then return to taking one dose once each week on your regularly scheduled day. If you miss a dose of once-monthly risedronate but remember more than 7 days before your next scheduled dose, take the missed dose the morning after you remember. If you remember less than 7 days before your next scheduled dose, do not take the missed dose. Instead, wait until the morning of your next scheduled dose and then take risedronate as usual. If you miss one or both doses of the two days in a row, once-monthly risedronate but remember more than 7 days before your next scheduled dose, you can take the missed doses. Take the first missed dose the morning after you remember and if you missed both doses, take the second missed dose the morning after you take the first one. If you remember less than 7 days before your next scheduled dose, do not take the missed dose(s). Instead, wait until the morning of your next scheduled dose and then take risedronate as usual. If you miss doses of risedronate and do not know what to do, call your doctor. Always take risedronate first thing in the morning. Never take a double dose to make up for a missed one, and never take more than one dose in one day. What side effects can this medication cause? Risedronate may cause side effects. Tell your doctor if any of these symptoms are severe or do not go away: nausea burping dry mouth stomach pain diarrhea constipation gas headache dizziness weakness leg cramps back pain frequent or urgent need to urinate painful urination Some side effects can be serious. If you experience any of the following side effects, call your doctor immediately before you take any more risedronate: difficulty swallowing or pain when swallowing new or worsening heartburn chest pain itching rash hives blisters on skin swelling of the face, throat, tongue, lips, eyes, hands, feet, ankles, or lower legs difficulty breathing hoarseness muscle spasms, twitching, or cramps numbness or tingling around mouth or in hands or feet swollen, red, or painful eyes sensitivity to light painful or swollen gums loosening of the teeth numbness or heavy feeling in the jaw poor healing of the jaw dull, aching pain in the hips, groin, or thighs Risedronate may cause other side effects. Call your doctor if you have any unusual problems while taking this medication. Taking a bisphosphonate medication such as risedronate for osteoporosis may increase the risk that you will break your thigh bone(s). You may feel pain in your hips, groin, or thighs for several weeks or months before the bone(s) break, and you may find that one or both of your thigh bones have broken even though you have not fallen or experienced other trauma. It is unusual for the thigh bone to break in healthy people, but people who have osteoporosis may break this bone even if they do not take risedronate. Talk to your doctor about the risks of taking risedronate. If you experience a serious side effect, you or your doctor may send a report to the Food and Drug Administration's (FDA) MedWatch Adverse Event Reporting program online ( http://www.fda.gov/Safety/MedWatch ) or by phone (1-800-332-1088). What should I know about storage and disposal of this medication? Keep this medication in the container it came in, tightly closed, and out of reach of children. Store it at room temperature and away from excess heat and moisture (not in the bathroom). Unneeded medications should be disposed of in special ways to ensure that pets, children, and other people cannot consume them. However, you should not flush this medication down the toilet. Instead, the best way to dispose of your medication is through a medicine take-back program. Talk to your pharmacist or contact your local garbage/recycling department to learn about take-back programs in your community. See the FDA's Safe Disposal of Medicines website ( http://goo.gl/c4Rm4p ) for more information if you do not have access to a take-back program. It is important to keep all medication out of sight and reach of children as many containers (such as weekly pill minders and those for eye drops, creams, patches, and inhalers) are not child-resistant and young children can open them easily. To protect young children from poisoning, always lock safety caps and immediately place the medication in a safe location – one that is up and away and out of their sight and reach. http://www.upandaway.org In case of emergency/overdose In case of overdose, give the victim a full glass of milk and call your local poison control center at 1-800-222-1222. If the victim has collapsed or is not breathing, call local emergency services at 911. Symptoms of overdose may include the following: numbness or tingling around mouth or in hands or feet muscle spasms, cramps, or twitches seizures What other information should I know? Keep all appointments with your doctor and the laboratory. Before having any laboratory test or bone imaging study, tell your doctor and the laboratory personnel that you are taking risedronate. Do not let anyone else take your medication. Ask your pharmacist any questions you have about refilling your prescription. It is important for you to keep a written list of all of the prescription and nonprescription (over-the-counter) medicines you are taking, as well as any products such as vitamins, minerals, or other dietary supplements. You should bring this list with you each time you visit a doctor or if you are admitted to a hospital. It is also important information to carry with you in case of emergencies. Brand names Actonel ® Atelvia

[ Risedronate pronounced as (ris ed' roe nate)  Risedronate tablets and delayed-release (long-acting tablets) are used to prevent and treat osteoporosis (a condition in which the bones become thin and weak and break easily) in women who have undergone menopause (''change of life,'' end of menstrual periods). Risedronate tablets are also used to treat osteoporosis in men, and in men and women who are taking glucocorticoids (a type of corticosteroid medication that may cause osteoporosis). Risedronate tablets are also used to treat Paget's disease of bone (a condition in which the bones are soft and weak and may be deformed, painful, or easily broken). Risedronate is in a class of medications called bisphosphonates. It works by preventing bone breakdown and increasing bone density (thickness). How should this medicine be used? Risedronate comes as a tablet and a delayed-release tablet to take by mouth. The delayed-release tablets are usually taken once a week in the morning, immediately after breakfast. The tablets are usually taken on an empty stomach once a day in the morning, once a week in the morning, once monthly in the morning, or once monthly for two mornings in a row depending on your condition and the dosage prescribed by your doctor. If you are taking risedronate once a week, once monthly, or once monthly for 2 days in a row, take it on the same day every week or month or the same 2 days in a row every month. Follow the directions on your prescription label carefully, and ask your doctor or pharmacist to explain any part you do not understand. Take risedronate exactly as directed. Do not take more or less of it or take it more often or for a longer period of time than prescribed by your doctor. Risedronate may not work properly and may damage the esophagus (tube that connects the mouth and stomach) or cause sores in the mouth if it is not taken according to the following instructions. Tell your doctor if you do not understand, you do not think you will remember, or you are unable to follow these instructions: You must take risedronate tablets immediately after you get out of bed in the morning and before you eat or drink anything. You must take risedronate delayed-release tablets immediately after breakfast. Never take risedronate at bedtime or before you wake up and get out of bed for the day. Swallow the tablets with a full glass (6 to 8 ounces [180 to 240 mL]) of plain water while you are sitting or standing. Swallow the delayed-release tablets with at least 4 ounces (120 mL) of plain water while you are sitting or standing. Never take risedronate with tea, coffee, juice, mineral water, milk, other dairy drinks, or any liquid other than plain water. Swallow the tablets and delayed-release tablets whole. Do not split, chew, or crush them. Do not suck on the tablets or hold them in your mouth for any length of time. After you take risedronate, do not eat, drink, or take any other medications for at least 30 minutes. Do not lie down for at least 30 minutes after you take risedronate. Sit upright or stand upright until at least 30 minutes have passed. Risedronate controls osteoporosis and Paget's disease of bone but does not cure these conditions. Risedronate helps to treat and prevent osteoporosis only as long as it is taken regularly. Continue to take risedronate even if you feel well. Do not stop taking risedronate without talking to your doctor, but talk to your doctor from time to time about whether you still need to take risedronate. Your doctor or pharmacist will give you the manufacturer's patient information sheet (Medication Guide) when you begin treatment with risedronate and each time you refill your prescription. Read the information carefully and ask your doctor or pharmacist if you have any questions. You can also visit the Food and Drug Administration (FDA) website ( http://www.fda.gov/Drugs/DrugSafety/ucm085729.htm ) or the manufacturer's website to obtain the Medication Guide. Other uses for this medicine This medication may be prescribed for other uses; ask your doctor or pharmacist for more information. What special precautions should I follow? Before taking risedronate, tell your doctor and pharmacist if you are allergic to risedronate, any other medications, or any of the ingredients in risedronate tablets or delayed-release tablets. Ask your pharmacist or check the Medication Guide for a list of the ingredients tell your doctor and pharmacist what prescription and nonprescription medications, vitamins, nutritional supplements, and herbal products you are taking or plan to take. Be sure to mention any of the following: angiogenesis inhibitors such as bevacizumab (Avastin), everolimus (Afinitor, Zortress), pazopanib (Votrient), sorafenib (Nexavar), or sunitinib (Sutent); aspirin and other nonsteroidal anti-inflammatory drugs (NSAIDs) such as ibuprofen (Advil, Ibu-Tab, Motrin, others) and naproxen (Aleve, Naprelan, Naprosyn, others); cancer chemotherapy; or oral steroids such as dexamethasone, methylprednisolone (Medrol), and prednisone (Rayos). If you are taking the delayed-release tablets, you should also tell your doctor if you are taking an H 2 blocker such as cimetidine, famotidine (Pepcid), nizatidine (Axid), and ranitidine (Zantac) or a proton pump inhibitor such as esomeprazole (Nexium, in Vimovo), lansoprazole (Prevacid), omeprazole (Prilosec, Zegerid), pantoprazole (Protonix), and rabeprazole (AcipHex). Your doctor may need to change the doses of your medications or monitor you carefully for side effects. you should know that Actonel and Atelvia both contain risedronate. You cannot take both of these medications at the same time. if you are taking any other oral medications including vitamins, supplements, or antacids, take them at least 30 minutes after you take risedronate. tell your doctor if you have or have ever had a low level of calcium in your blood or any problems with your esophagus and if you are unable to sit upright or stand upright for at least 30 minutes. Your doctor may tell you that you should not take risedronate. tell your doctor if you are undergoing radiation therapy; if you have or have ever had difficulty swallowing; heartburn; ulcers or other problems with your stomach; anemia (condition in which the red blood cells do not bring enough oxygen to all the parts of the body); cancer; any type of infection, especially in your mouth; problems with your mouth, teeth, or gums; any condition that stops your blood from clotting normally; or dental or kidney disease. tell your doctor if you are pregnant or are breastfeeding. Also tell your doctor if you plan to become pregnant at any time in the future, because risedronate may remain in your body for years after you stop taking it. Call your doctor if you become pregnant during or after your treatment with risedronate. you should know that risedronate may cause severe bone, muscle, or joint pain. You may begin to feel this pain within days, months, or years after you first take risedronate. Although this type of pain may begin after you have taken risedronate for some time, it is important for you and your doctor to realize that it may be caused by risedronate. Call your doctor right away if you experience severe pain at any time during your treatment with risedronate. Your doctor may tell you to stop taking risedronate and your pain may go away after you stop taking the medication. you should know that risedronate may cause osteonecrosis of the jaw (ONJ, a serious condition of the jaw bone), especially if you have dental surgery or treatment while you are taking the medication. A dentist should examine your teeth and perform any needed treatments, including cleaning or fixing ill-fitted dentures, before you start to take risedronate. Be sure to brush your teeth and clean your mouth properly while you are taking risedronate. Talk to your doctor before having any dental treatments while you are taking this medication. talk to your doctor about other things you can do to prevent osteoporosis from developing or worsening. Your doctor will probably tell you to avoid smoking and drinking large amounts of alcohol and to follow a regular program of weight-bearing exercise. What special dietary instructions should I follow? You should eat plenty of foods that are rich in calcium and vitamin D while you are taking risedronate. Your doctor will tell you which foods are good sources of these nutrients and how many servings you need each day. If you find it difficult to eat enough of these foods, tell your doctor. In that case, your doctor can prescribe or recommend a supplement. What should I do if I forget a dose? If you miss a dose of once-daily risedronate, do not take it later in the day. Skip the missed dose and take one dose the next morning as usual. If you miss a dose of once-weekly risedronate, do not take it later in the day. Take one dose the morning after you remember. Then return to taking one dose once each week on your regularly scheduled day. If you miss a dose of once-monthly risedronate but remember more than 7 days before your next scheduled dose, take the missed dose the morning after you remember. If you remember less than 7 days before your next scheduled dose, do not take the missed dose. Instead, wait until the morning of your next scheduled dose and then take risedronate as usual. If you miss one or both doses of the two days in a row, once-monthly risedronate but remember more than 7 days before your next scheduled dose, you can take the missed doses. Take the first missed dose the morning after you remember and if you missed both doses, take the second missed dose the morning after you take the first one. If you remember less than 7 days before your next scheduled dose, do not take the missed dose(s). Instead, wait until the morning of your next scheduled dose and then take risedronate as usual. If you miss doses of risedronate and do not know what to do, call your doctor. Always take risedronate first thing in the morning. Never take a double dose to make up for a missed one, and never take more than one dose in one day. What side effects can this medication cause? Risedronate may cause side effects. Tell your doctor if any of these symptoms are severe or do not go away: nausea burping dry mouth stomach pain diarrhea constipation gas headache dizziness weakness leg cramps back pain frequent or urgent need to urinate painful urination Some side effects can be serious. If you experience any of the following side effects, call your doctor immediately before you take any more risedronate: difficulty swallowing or pain when swallowing new or worsening heartburn chest pain itching rash hives blisters on skin swelling of the face, throat, tongue, lips, eyes, hands, feet, ankles, or lower legs difficulty breathing hoarseness muscle spasms, twitching, or cramps numbness or tingling around mouth or in hands or feet swollen, red, or painful eyes sensitivity to light painful or swollen gums loosening of the teeth numbness or heavy feeling in the jaw poor healing of the jaw dull, aching pain in the hips, groin, or thighs Risedronate may cause other side effects. Call your doctor if you have any unusual problems while taking this medication. Taking a bisphosphonate medication such as risedronate for osteoporosis may increase the risk that you will break your thigh bone(s). You may feel pain in your hips, groin, or thighs for several weeks or months before the bone(s) break, and you may find that one or both of your thigh bones have broken even though you have not fallen or experienced other trauma. It is unusual for the thigh bone to break in healthy people, but people who have osteoporosis may break this bone even if they do not take risedronate. Talk to your doctor about the risks of taking risedronate. If you experience a serious side effect, you or your doctor may send a report to the Food and Drug Administration's (FDA) MedWatch Adverse Event Reporting program online ( http://www.fda.gov/Safety/MedWatch ) or by phone (1-800-332-1088). What should I know about storage and disposal of this medication? Keep this medication in the container it came in, tightly closed, and out of reach of children. Store it at room temperature and away from excess heat and moisture (not in the bathroom). Unneeded medications should be disposed of in special ways to ensure that pets, children, and other people cannot consume them. However, you should not flush this medication down the toilet. Instead, the best way to dispose of your medication is through a medicine take-back program. Talk to your pharmacist or contact your local garbage/recycling department to learn about take-back programs in your community. See the FDA's Safe Disposal of Medicines website ( http://goo.gl/c4Rm4p ) for more information if you do not have access to a take-back program. It is important to keep all medication out of sight and reach of children as many containers (such as weekly pill minders and those for eye drops, creams, patches, and inhalers) are not child-resistant and young children can open them easily. To protect young children from poisoning, always lock safety caps and immediately place the medication in a safe location – one that is up and away and out of their sight and reach. http://www.upandaway.org In case of emergency/overdose In case of overdose, give the victim a full glass of milk and call your local poison control center at 1-800-222-1222. If the victim has collapsed or is not breathing, call local emergency services at 911. Symptoms of overdose may include the following: numbness or tingling around mouth or in hands or feet muscle spasms, cramps, or twitches seizures What other information should I know? Keep all appointments with your doctor and the laboratory. Before having any laboratory test or bone imaging study, tell your doctor and the laboratory personnel that you are taking risedronate. Do not let anyone else take your medication. Ask your pharmacist any questions you have about refilling your prescription. It is important for you to keep a written list of all of the prescription and nonprescription (over-the-counter) medicines you are taking, as well as any products such as vitamins, minerals, or other dietary supplements. You should bring this list with you each time you visit a doctor or if you are admitted to a hospital. It is also important information to carry with you in case of emergencies. Brand names Actonel ® Atelvia

[ Metformin pronounced as (met for' min) To use the sharing features on this page, please enable JavaScript. Why is this medication prescribed? How should this medicine be used? Other uses for this medicine What special precautions should I follow? What special dietary instructions should I follow? What should I do if I forget a dose? What side effects can this medication cause? What should I know about storage and disposal of this medication? In case of emergency/overdose What other information should I know? Brand names IMPORTANT WARNING: Metformin may rarely cause a serious, life-threatening condition called lactic acidosis. Tell your doctor if you have kidney disease. Your doctor will probably tell you not to take metformin. Also, tell your doctor if you are over 65 years old and if you have ever had a heart attack; stroke; diabetic ketoacidosis (blood sugar that is high enough to cause severe symptoms and requires emergency medical treatment); a coma; or heart or liver disease. Taking certain other medications with metformin may increase the risk of lactic acidosis. Tell your doctor if you are taking acetazolamide (Diamox), dichlorphenamide (Keveyis), methazolamide, topiramate (Topamax, in Qsymia), or zonisamide (Zonegran). Tell your doctor if you have recently had any of the following conditions, or if you develop them during treatment: serious infection; severe diarrhea, vomiting, or fever; or if you drink much less fluid than usual for any reason. You may have to stop taking metformin until you recover. If you are having surgery, including dental surgery, or any major medical procedure, tell the doctor that you are taking metformin. Also, tell your doctor if you plan to have any x-ray procedure in which dye is injected, especially if you drink or have ever drunk large amounts of alcohol or have or have had liver disease or heart failure. You may need to stop taking metformin before the procedure and wait at least 48 hours to restart treatment. Your doctor will tell you exactly when you should stop taking metformin and when you should start taking it again. If you experience any of the following symptoms, stop taking metformin and call your doctor immediately: extreme tiredness, weakness, or discomfort; nausea; vomiting; stomach pain; decreased appetite; deep and rapid breathing or shortness of breath; dizziness; lightheadedness; fast or slow heartbeat; muscle pain; or feeling cold, especially in your hands or feet. Tell your doctor if you regularly drink alcohol or sometimes drink large amounts of alcohol in a short time (binge drinking). Drinking alcohol increases your risk of developing lactic acidosis or may cause a decrease in blood sugar. Ask your doctor how much alcohol is safe to drink while you are taking metformin. Keep all appointments with your doctor and the laboratory. Your doctor will order certain tests before and during treatment to check how well your kidneys are working and your body's response to metformin. Talk to your doctor about the risk(s) of taking metformin. Why is this medication prescribed? Metformin is used alone or with other medications, including insulin, to treat type 2 diabetes (condition in which the body does not use insulin normally and, therefore, cannot control the amount of sugar in the blood). Metformin is in a class of drugs called biguanides. Metformin helps to control the amount of glucose (sugar) in your blood. It decreases the amount of glucose you absorb from your food and the amount of glucose made by your liver. Metformin also increases your body's response to insulin, a natural substance that controls the amount of glucose in the blood. Metformin is not used to treat type 1 diabetes (condition in which the body does not produce insulin and therefore cannot control the amount of sugar in the blood). Over time, people who have diabetes and high blood sugar can develop serious or life-threatening complications, including heart disease, stroke, kidney problems, nerve damage, and eye problems. Taking medication(s), making lifestyle changes (e.g., diet, exercise, quitting smoking), and regularly checking your blood sugar may help to manage your diabetes and improve your health. This therapy may also decrease your chances of having a heart attack, stroke, or other diabetes-related complications such as kidney failure, nerve damage (numb, cold legs or feet; decreased sexual ability in men and women), eye problems, including changes or loss of vision, or gum disease. Your doctor and other healthcare providers will talk to you about the best way to manage your diabetes. How should this medicine be used? Metformin comes as a tablet, an extended-release (long-acting) tablet, and a solution (liquid) to take by mouth. The solution is usually taken with meals one or two times a day. The regular tablet is usually taken with meals two or three times a day. The extended-release tablet is usually taken once daily with the evening meal. To help you remember to take metformin, take it around the same time(s) every day. Follow the directions on your prescription label carefully, and ask your doctor or pharmacist to explain any part you do not understand. Take metformin exactly as directed. Do not take more or less of it or take it more often than prescribed by your doctor. Swallow metformin extended-release tablets whole; do not split, chew, or crush them. Your doctor may start you on a low dose of metformin and gradually increase your dose not more often than once every 1–2 weeks. You will need to monitor your blood sugar carefully so your doctor will be able to tell how well metformin is working. Metformin controls diabetes but does not cure it. Continue to take metformin even if you feel well. Do not stop taking metformin without talking to your doctor. Ask your pharmacist or doctor for a copy of the manufacturer's information for the patient. Other uses for this medicine This medication may be prescribed for other uses; ask your doctor or pharmacist for more information. What special precautions should I follow? Before taking metformin, tell your doctor and pharmacist if you are allergic to metformin, any of the ingredients of metformin liquid or tablets, or any other medications. Ask your pharmacist or check the manufacturer's patient information for a list of the ingredients. tell your doctor and pharmacist what other prescription and nonprescription medications, vitamins, nutritional supplements, and herbal products you are taking. Your doctor may need to change the doses of your medications or monitor you carefully for side effects. tell your doctor if you have or have ever had low levels of vitamin B 12 in your body or any other medical conditions, especially those mentioned in the IMPORTANT WARNING section. tell your doctor if you are pregnant, plan to become pregnant, or are breastfeeding. If you become pregnant while taking metformin, call your doctor. tell your doctor if you eat less or exercise more than usual. This can affect your blood sugar. Your doctor will give you instructions if this happens. What special dietary instructions should I follow? Be sure to follow all exercise and dietary recommendations made by your doctor or dietitian. It is important to eat a healthful diet. What should I do if I forget a dose? Take the missed dose as soon as you remember it. However, if it is almost time for the next dose, skip the missed dose and continue your regular dosing schedule. Do not take a double dose to make up for a missed one. What side effects can this medication cause? This medication may cause changes in your blood sugar. You should know the symptoms of low and high blood sugar and what to do if you have these symptoms. Metformin may cause side effects. Tell your doctor if any of these symptoms are severe, do not go away, go away and come back, or do not begin for some time after you begin taking metformin: diarrhea nausea stomach discomfort gas indigestion constipation lack of energy or weakness change in sense of taste headache flushing of the skin nail changes muscle pain rash Some side effects can be serious. If you experience any of these symptoms or those listed in the IMPORTANT WARNING section, call your doctor immediately or get emergency treatment: chest pain Metformin may cause other side effects. Call your doctor if you have any unusual problems while taking this medication. If you experience a serious side effect, you or your doctor may send a report to the Food and Drug Administration's (FDA) MedWatch Adverse Event Reporting program online ( http://www.fda.gov/Safety/MedWatch ) or by phone (1-800-332-1088). What should I know about storage and disposal of this medication? Keep this medication in the container it came in, tightly closed, and out of reach of children. Store it at room temperature and away from light, excess heat, and moisture (not in the bathroom). Unneeded medications should be disposed of in special ways to ensure that pets, children, and other people cannot consume them. However, you should not flush this medication down the toilet. Instead, the best way to dispose of your medication is through a medicine take-back program. Talk to your pharmacist or contact your local garbage/recycling department to learn about take-back programs in your community. See the FDA's Safe Disposal of Medicines website ( http://goo.gl/c4Rm4p ) for more information if you do not have access to a take-back program. It is important to keep all medication out of sight and reach of children as many containers (such as weekly pill minders and those for eye drops, creams, patches, and inhalers) are not child-resistant and young children can open them easily. To protect young children from poisoning, always lock safety caps and immediately place the medication in a safe location – one that is up and away and out of their sight and reach. http://www.upandaway.org In case of emergency/overdose In case of overdose, call the poison control helpline at 1-800-222-1222. Information is also available online at https://www.poisonhelp.org/help . If the victim has collapsed, had a seizure, has trouble breathing, or can't be awakened, immediately call emergency services at 911. Symptoms of overdose may include hypoglycemia symptoms as well as the following: extreme tiredness weakness discomfort vomiting nausea stomach pain decreased appetite deep, rapid breathing shortness of breath dizziness lightheadedness abnormally fast or slow heartbeat muscle pain feeling cold What other information should I know? Your doctor will tell you how to check your response to this medication by measuring your blood sugar levels at home. Follow these instructions carefully. If you are taking the extended-release tablets, you may notice something that looks like a tablet in your stool. This is just the empty tablet shell, and this does not mean that you did not get your complete dose of medication. You should always wear a diabetic identification bracelet to be sure you get proper treatment in an emergency. Do not let anyone else take your medication. Ask your pharmacist any questions you have about refilling your prescription. It is important for you to keep a written list of all of the prescription and nonprescription (over-the-counter) medicines you are taking, as well as any products such as vitamins, minerals, or other dietary supplements. You should bring this list with you each time you visit a doctor or if you are admitted to a hospital. It is also important information to carry with you in case of emergencies. Brand names Fortamet ® Glucophage ® ¶ Glumetza ® Riomet ® ¶ Trijardy ® (as a combination product containing Empagliflozin, Linagliptin, Metformin)

[ Pioglitazone pronounced as (pye oh gli' ta zone) To use the sharing features on this page, please enable JavaScript. Why is this medication prescribed? How should this medicine be used? Other uses for this medicine What special precautions should I follow? What special dietary instructions should I follow? What should I do if I forget a dose? What side effects can this medication cause? What should I know about storage and disposal of this medication? In case of emergency/overdose What other information should I know? Brand names IMPORTANT WARNING: Pioglitazone and other similar medications for diabetes may cause or worsen heart failure (condition in which the heart is unable to pump enough blood to the other parts of the body). Before you start to take pioglitazone, tell your doctor if you have or have ever had heart failure, especially if your heart failure is so severe that you must limit your activity and are only comfortable when you are at rest or you must remain in a chair or bed. Also tell your doctor if you were born with a heart defect, and if you have or have ever had swelling of the arms, hands, feet, ankles, or lower legs; heart disease; high cholesterol or fats in the blood; high blood pressure; coronary artery disease (narrowing of the blood vessels that supply blood to the heart); a heart attack; an irregular heartbeat; or sleep apnea. Your doctor may tell you not to take pioglitazone or may monitor you carefully during your treatment. If you develop heart failure, you may experience certain symptoms. Tell your doctor immediately if you have any of the following symptoms, especially when you first start taking pioglitazone or after your dose is increased: large weight gain in a short period of time; shortness of breath; swelling of the arms, hands, feet, ankles, or lower legs; swelling or pain in the stomach; waking up short of breath during the night; needing to sleep with extra pillows under your head in order to breathe easier while lying down; frequent dry cough or wheezing; difficulty thinking clearly or confusion; fast or racing heart beat; not able to walk or exercise as well; or increased tiredness. Your doctor or pharmacist will give you the manufacturer's patient information sheet (Medication Guide) when you begin treatment with pioglitazone and each time you refill your prescription. Read the information carefully and ask your doctor or pharmacist if you have any questions. You can also visit the Food and Drug Administration (FDA) website ( http://www.fda.gov/Drugs/DrugSafety/ucm085729.htm ) or the manufacturer's website to obtain the Medication Guide. Talk to your doctor about the risks of taking pioglitazone. Why is this medication prescribed? Pioglitazone is used with a diet and exercise program and sometimes with other medications, to treat type 2 diabetes (condition in which the body does not use insulin normally and therefore cannot control the amount of sugar in the blood). Pioglitazone is in a class of medications called thiazolidinediones. It works by increasing the body's sensitivity to insulin, a natural substance that helps control blood sugar levels. Pioglitazone is not used to treat type 1 diabetes (condition in which the body does not produce insulin and, therefore, cannot control the amount of sugar in the blood) or diabetic ketoacidosis (a serious condition that may develop if high blood sugar is not treated). Over time, people who have diabetes and high blood sugar can develop serious or life-threatening complications, including heart disease, stroke, kidney problems, nerve damage, and eye problems.Taking medication(s), making lifestyle changes (e.g., diet, exercise, quitting smoking), and regularly checking your blood sugar may help to manage your diabetes and improve your health. This therapy may also decrease your chances of having a heart attack, stroke, or other diabetes-related complications such as kidney failure, nerve damage (numb, cold legs or feet; decreased sexual ability in men and women), eye problems, including changes or loss of vision, or gum disease. Your doctor and other healthcare providers will talk to you about the best way to manage your diabetes. How should this medicine be used? Pioglitazone comes as a tablet to take by mouth. It is usually taken once daily with or without meals. Take pioglitazone at around the same time every day. Follow the directions on your prescription label carefully, and ask your doctor or pharmacist to explain any part you do not understand. Take pioglitazone exactly as directed. Do not take more or less of it or take it more often than prescribed by your doctor. Your doctor may start you on a low dose of pioglitazone and gradually increase your dose. Pioglitazone controls type 2 diabetes but does not cure it. It may take 2 weeks for your blood sugar to decrease and 2 to 3 months for you to feel the full effect of pioglitazone. Continue to take pioglitazone even if you feel well. Do not stop taking pioglitazone without talking to your doctor. Other uses for this medicine This medication may be prescribed for other uses; ask your doctor or pharmacist for more information. What special precautions should I follow? Before taking pioglitazone, tell your doctor and pharmacist if you are allergic to pioglitazone, any other medications, or any of the ingredients in pioglitazone tablets. Ask your pharmacist or check the Medication Guide for a list of the ingredients. tell your doctor and pharmacist what prescription and nonprescription medications, vitamins, nutritional supplements and herbal products you are taking or plan to take. Be sure to mention any of the following: atorvastatin (Lipitor, in Caduet), gemfibrozil (Lopid), hormonal contraceptives (birth control pills, patches, rings, implants, and injections), insulin or other medications to treat diabetes; ketoconazole (Nizoral), midazolam, nifedipine (Adalat, Afeditab, Procardia), ranitidine (Zantac), rifampin (Rifadin, Rifater, in Rifamate), and theophylline (Elixophyllin, Theo-24, Theochron). Your doctor may need to change the doses of your medications or monitor you carefully for side effects. tell your doctor if you have or have ever had any of the conditions mentioned in the IMPORTANT WARNING section, or if you have or have ever had bladder cancer, diabetic eye disease, or kidney or liver disease. tell your doctor if you are pregnant, plan to become pregnant, or are breast-feeding. If you become pregnant while taking pioglitazone, call your doctor. Do not breast-feed while you are taking pioglitazone. if you have not yet experienced menopause (change of life; end of monthly periods) you should know that pioglitazone may increase the chance that you will become pregnant even if you do not have regular monthly periods or if you have a condition that prevents you from ovulating (releasing an egg from the ovaries). Talk to your doctor about methods of birth control that will work for you. if you will be having surgery, including dental surgery, tell the doctor or dentist that you are taking pioglitazone. ask your doctor what to do if you get sick, develop an infection or fever, experience unusual stress, or are injured. These conditions can affect your blood sugar and the amount of pioglitazone you may need. What special dietary instructions should I follow? Be sure to follow all exercise and dietary recommendations made by your doctor or dietitian. It is important to eat a healthy diet, exercise regularly, and lose weight if necessary. This will help to control your diabetes and help pioglitazone work more effectively. Alcohol may cause a decrease in blood sugar. Ask your doctor about the safe use of alcoholic beverages while you are taking pioglitazone. What should I do if I forget a dose? If you remember that same day, take the missed dose as soon as your remember it. However, if you do not remember until the next day, skip the missed dose and continue your regular dosing schedule. Do not take more than one dose in one day and do not take a double dose to make up for a missed one. What side effects can this medication cause? This medication may cause changes in your blood sugar. You should know the symptoms of low and high blood sugar and what to do if you have these symptoms. Pioglitazone may cause side effects. Tell your doctor if any of these symptoms are severe or do not go away: headache muscle pain pain in the arms or legs sore throat gas Some side effects can be serious. If you experience any of the following symptoms or those mentioned in the IMPORTANT WARNING section, call your doctor immediately: changes in vision vision loss frequent, painful, or difficult urination cloudy, discolored, or bloody urine back or stomach pain You should know that pioglitazone may cause liver problems. Stop taking pioglitazone and call your doctor right away if you have nausea, vomiting, loss of appetite, pain in the upper right part of the stomach, flu-like symptoms, dark urine, yellowing of the skin or eyes, unusual bleeding or bruising, or lack of energy. In clinical studies, more people who took pioglitazone for more than one year developed bladder cancer than people who did not take pioglitazone Talk to your doctor about the risk of taking this medication. In clinical studies, more women who took pioglitazone developed fractures (broken bones), especially of the hands, upper arms, or feet, than women who did not take pioglitazone. Men who took pioglitazone did not have a greater risk of developing fractures than men who did not take the medication. If you are a woman, talk to your doctor about the risk of taking this medication. Pioglitazone may cause other side effects. Call your doctor if you have any unusual problems while you are taking this medication. If you experience a serious side effect, you or your doctor may send a report to the Food and Drug Administration's (FDA) MedWatch Adverse Event Reporting program online ( http://www.fda.gov/Safety/MedWatch ) or by phone (1-800-332-1088). What should I know about storage and disposal of this medication? Keep this medication in the container it came in, tightly closed, and out of reach of children. Store it at room temperature and away from excess heat, light, and moisture (not in the bathroom). Unneeded medications should be disposed of in special ways to ensure that pets, children, and other people cannot consume them. However, you should not flush this medication down the toilet. Instead, the best way to dispose of your medication is through a medicine take-back program. Talk to your pharmacist or contact your local garbage/recycling department to learn about take-back programs in your community. See the FDA's Safe Disposal of Medicines website ( http://goo.gl/c4Rm4p ) for more information if you do not have access to a take-back program. It is important to keep all medication out of sight and reach of children as many containers (such as weekly pill minders and those for eye drops, creams, patches, and inhalers) are not child-resistant and young children can open them easily. To protect young children from poisoning, always lock safety caps and immediately place the medication in a safe location – one that is up and away and out of their sight and reach. http://www.upandaway.org In case of emergency/overdose In case of overdose, call the poison control helpline at 1-800-222-1222. Information is also available online at https://www.poisonhelp.org/help . If the victim has collapsed, had a seizure, has trouble breathing, or can't be awakened, immediately call emergency services at 911. What other information should I know? Keep all appointments with your doctor, your eye doctor, and the laboratory. Your doctor will probably order regular eye examinations and certain laboratory tests before and during your treatment to check your body's response to pioglitazone. Your blood sugar and glycosolated hemoglobin should be checked regularly to determine your response to pioglitazone. Your doctor will also tell you how to check your response to pioglitazone by measuring your blood or urine sugar levels at home. Follow these directions carefully. You should always wear a diabetic identification bracelet to be sure you get proper treatment in an emergency. Do not let anyone else take your medication. Ask your pharmacist any questions you have about refilling your prescription. It is important for you to keep a written list of all of the prescription and nonprescription (over-the-counter) medicines you are taking, as well as any products such as vitamins, minerals, or other dietary supplements. You should bring this list with you each time you visit a doctor or if you are admitted to a hospital. It is also important information to carry with you in case of emergencies. Brand names Actos ® Oseni ® (as a combination product containing Alogliptin, Pioglitazone)

[ Pioglitazone pronounced as (pye oh gli' ta zone) To use the sharing features on this page, please enable JavaScript. Why is this medication prescribed? How should this medicine be used? Other uses for this medicine What special precautions should I follow? What special dietary instructions should I follow? What should I do if I forget a dose? What side effects can this medication cause? What should I know about storage and disposal of this medication? In case of emergency/overdose What other information should I know? Brand names IMPORTANT WARNING: Pioglitazone and other similar medications for diabetes may cause or worsen heart failure (condition in which the heart is unable to pump enough blood to the other parts of the body). Before you start to take pioglitazone, tell your doctor if you have or have ever had heart failure, especially if your heart failure is so severe that you must limit your activity and are only comfortable when you are at rest or you must remain in a chair or bed. Also tell your doctor if you were born with a heart defect, and if you have or have ever had swelling of the arms, hands, feet, ankles, or lower legs; heart disease; high cholesterol or fats in the blood; high blood pressure; coronary artery disease (narrowing of the blood vessels that supply blood to the heart); a heart attack; an irregular heartbeat; or sleep apnea. Your doctor may tell you not to take pioglitazone or may monitor you carefully during your treatment. If you develop heart failure, you may experience certain symptoms. Tell your doctor immediately if you have any of the following symptoms, especially when you first start taking pioglitazone or after your dose is increased: large weight gain in a short period of time; shortness of breath; swelling of the arms, hands, feet, ankles, or lower legs; swelling or pain in the stomach; waking up short of breath during the night; needing to sleep with extra pillows under your head in order to breathe easier while lying down; frequent dry cough or wheezing; difficulty thinking clearly or confusion; fast or racing heart beat; not able to walk or exercise as well; or increased tiredness. Your doctor or pharmacist will give you the manufacturer's patient information sheet (Medication Guide) when you begin treatment with pioglitazone and each time you refill your prescription. Read the information carefully and ask your doctor or pharmacist if you have any questions. You can also visit the Food and Drug Administration (FDA) website ( http://www.fda.gov/Drugs/DrugSafety/ucm085729.htm ) or the manufacturer's website to obtain the Medication Guide. Talk to your doctor about the risks of taking pioglitazone. Why is this medication prescribed? Pioglitazone is used with a diet and exercise program and sometimes with other medications, to treat type 2 diabetes (condition in which the body does not use insulin normally and therefore cannot control the amount of sugar in the blood). Pioglitazone is in a class of medications called thiazolidinediones. It works by increasing the body's sensitivity to insulin, a natural substance that helps control blood sugar levels. Pioglitazone is not used to treat type 1 diabetes (condition in which the body does not produce insulin and, therefore, cannot control the amount of sugar in the blood) or diabetic ketoacidosis (a serious condition that may develop if high blood sugar is not treated). Over time, people who have diabetes and high blood sugar can develop serious or life-threatening complications, including heart disease, stroke, kidney problems, nerve damage, and eye problems.Taking medication(s), making lifestyle changes (e.g., diet, exercise, quitting smoking), and regularly checking your blood sugar may help to manage your diabetes and improve your health. This therapy may also decrease your chances of having a heart attack, stroke, or other diabetes-related complications such as kidney failure, nerve damage (numb, cold legs or feet; decreased sexual ability in men and women), eye problems, including changes or loss of vision, or gum disease. Your doctor and other healthcare providers will talk to you about the best way to manage your diabetes. How should this medicine be used? Pioglitazone comes as a tablet to take by mouth. It is usually taken once daily with or without meals. Take pioglitazone at around the same time every day. Follow the directions on your prescription label carefully, and ask your doctor or pharmacist to explain any part you do not understand. Take pioglitazone exactly as directed. Do not take more or less of it or take it more often than prescribed by your doctor. Your doctor may start you on a low dose of pioglitazone and gradually increase your dose. Pioglitazone controls type 2 diabetes but does not cure it. It may take 2 weeks for your blood sugar to decrease and 2 to 3 months for you to feel the full effect of pioglitazone. Continue to take pioglitazone even if you feel well. Do not stop taking pioglitazone without talking to your doctor. Other uses for this medicine This medication may be prescribed for other uses; ask your doctor or pharmacist for more information. What special precautions should I follow? Before taking pioglitazone, tell your doctor and pharmacist if you are allergic to pioglitazone, any other medications, or any of the ingredients in pioglitazone tablets. Ask your pharmacist or check the Medication Guide for a list of the ingredients. tell your doctor and pharmacist what prescription and nonprescription medications, vitamins, nutritional supplements and herbal products you are taking or plan to take. Be sure to mention any of the following: atorvastatin (Lipitor, in Caduet), gemfibrozil (Lopid), hormonal contraceptives (birth control pills, patches, rings, implants, and injections), insulin or other medications to treat diabetes; ketoconazole (Nizoral), midazolam, nifedipine (Adalat, Afeditab, Procardia), ranitidine (Zantac), rifampin (Rifadin, Rifater, in Rifamate), and theophylline (Elixophyllin, Theo-24, Theochron). Your doctor may need to change the doses of your medications or monitor you carefully for side effects. tell your doctor if you have or have ever had any of the conditions mentioned in the IMPORTANT WARNING section, or if you have or have ever had bladder cancer, diabetic eye disease, or kidney or liver disease. tell your doctor if you are pregnant, plan to become pregnant, or are breast-feeding. If you become pregnant while taking pioglitazone, call your doctor. Do not breast-feed while you are taking pioglitazone. if you have not yet experienced menopause (change of life; end of monthly periods) you should know that pioglitazone may increase the chance that you will become pregnant even if you do not have regular monthly periods or if you have a condition that prevents you from ovulating (releasing an egg from the ovaries). Talk to your doctor about methods of birth control that will work for you. if you will be having surgery, including dental surgery, tell the doctor or dentist that you are taking pioglitazone. ask your doctor what to do if you get sick, develop an infection or fever, experience unusual stress, or are injured. These conditions can affect your blood sugar and the amount of pioglitazone you may need. What special dietary instructions should I follow? Be sure to follow all exercise and dietary recommendations made by your doctor or dietitian. It is important to eat a healthy diet, exercise regularly, and lose weight if necessary. This will help to control your diabetes and help pioglitazone work more effectively. Alcohol may cause a decrease in blood sugar. Ask your doctor about the safe use of alcoholic beverages while you are taking pioglitazone. What should I do if I forget a dose? If you remember that same day, take the missed dose as soon as your remember it. However, if you do not remember until the next day, skip the missed dose and continue your regular dosing schedule. Do not take more than one dose in one day and do not take a double dose to make up for a missed one. What side effects can this medication cause? This medication may cause changes in your blood sugar. You should know the symptoms of low and high blood sugar and what to do if you have these symptoms. Pioglitazone may cause side effects. Tell your doctor if any of these symptoms are severe or do not go away: headache muscle pain pain in the arms or legs sore throat gas Some side effects can be serious. If you experience any of the following symptoms or those mentioned in the IMPORTANT WARNING section, call your doctor immediately: changes in vision vision loss frequent, painful, or difficult urination cloudy, discolored, or bloody urine back or stomach pain You should know that pioglitazone may cause liver problems. Stop taking pioglitazone and call your doctor right away if you have nausea, vomiting, loss of appetite, pain in the upper right part of the stomach, flu-like symptoms, dark urine, yellowing of the skin or eyes, unusual bleeding or bruising, or lack of energy. In clinical studies, more people who took pioglitazone for more than one year developed bladder cancer than people who did not take pioglitazone Talk to your doctor about the risk of taking this medication. In clinical studies, more women who took pioglitazone developed fractures (broken bones), especially of the hands, upper arms, or feet, than women who did not take pioglitazone. Men who took pioglitazone did not have a greater risk of developing fractures than men who did not take the medication. If you are a woman, talk to your doctor about the risk of taking this medication. Pioglitazone may cause other side effects. Call your doctor if you have any unusual problems while you are taking this medication. If you experience a serious side effect, you or your doctor may send a report to the Food and Drug Administration's (FDA) MedWatch Adverse Event Reporting program online ( http://www.fda.gov/Safety/MedWatch ) or by phone (1-800-332-1088). What should I know about storage and disposal of this medication? Keep this medication in the container it came in, tightly closed, and out of reach of children. Store it at room temperature and away from excess heat, light, and moisture (not in the bathroom). Unneeded medications should be disposed of in special ways to ensure that pets, children, and other people cannot consume them. However, you should not flush this medication down the toilet. Instead, the best way to dispose of your medication is through a medicine take-back program. Talk to your pharmacist or contact your local garbage/recycling department to learn about take-back programs in your community. See the FDA's Safe Disposal of Medicines website ( http://goo.gl/c4Rm4p ) for more information if you do not have access to a take-back program. It is important to keep all medication out of sight and reach of children as many containers (such as weekly pill minders and those for eye drops, creams, patches, and inhalers) are not child-resistant and young children can open them easily. To protect young children from poisoning, always lock safety caps and immediately place the medication in a safe location – one that is up and away and out of their sight and reach. http://www.upandaway.org In case of emergency/overdose In case of overdose, call the poison control helpline at 1-800-222-1222. Information is also available online at https://www.poisonhelp.org/help . If the victim has collapsed, had a seizure, has trouble breathing, or can't be awakened, immediately call emergency services at 911. What other information should I know? Keep all appointments with your doctor, your eye doctor, and the laboratory. Your doctor will probably order regular eye examinations and certain laboratory tests before and during your treatment to check your body's response to pioglitazone. Your blood sugar and glycosolated hemoglobin should be checked regularly to determine your response to pioglitazone. Your doctor will also tell you how to check your response to pioglitazone by measuring your blood or urine sugar levels at home. Follow these directions carefully. You should always wear a diabetic identification bracelet to be sure you get proper treatment in an emergency. Do not let anyone else take your medication. Ask your pharmacist any questions you have about refilling your prescription. It is important for you to keep a written list of all of the prescription and nonprescription (over-the-counter) medicines you are taking, as well as any products such as vitamins, minerals, or other dietary supplements. You should bring this list with you each time you visit a doctor or if you are admitted to a hospital. It is also important information to carry with you in case of emergencies. Brand names Actos ® Oseni ® (as a combination product containing Alogliptin, Pioglitazone)

[ Pioglitazone pronounced as (pye oh gli' ta zone) To use the sharing features on this page, please enable JavaScript. Why is this medication prescribed? How should this medicine be used? Other uses for this medicine What special precautions should I follow? What special dietary instructions should I follow? What should I do if I forget a dose? What side effects can this medication cause? What should I know about storage and disposal of this medication? In case of emergency/overdose What other information should I know? Brand names IMPORTANT WARNING: Pioglitazone and other similar medications for diabetes may cause or worsen heart failure (condition in which the heart is unable to pump enough blood to the other parts of the body). Before you start to take pioglitazone, tell your doctor if you have or have ever had heart failure, especially if your heart failure is so severe that you must limit your activity and are only comfortable when you are at rest or you must remain in a chair or bed. Also tell your doctor if you were born with a heart defect, and if you have or have ever had swelling of the arms, hands, feet, ankles, or lower legs; heart disease; high cholesterol or fats in the blood; high blood pressure; coronary artery disease (narrowing of the blood vessels that supply blood to the heart); a heart attack; an irregular heartbeat; or sleep apnea. Your doctor may tell you not to take pioglitazone or may monitor you carefully during your treatment. If you develop heart failure, you may experience certain symptoms. Tell your doctor immediately if you have any of the following symptoms, especially when you first start taking pioglitazone or after your dose is increased: large weight gain in a short period of time; shortness of breath; swelling of the arms, hands, feet, ankles, or lower legs; swelling or pain in the stomach; waking up short of breath during the night; needing to sleep with extra pillows under your head in order to breathe easier while lying down; frequent dry cough or wheezing; difficulty thinking clearly or confusion; fast or racing heart beat; not able to walk or exercise as well; or increased tiredness. Your doctor or pharmacist will give you the manufacturer's patient information sheet (Medication Guide) when you begin treatment with pioglitazone and each time you refill your prescription. Read the information carefully and ask your doctor or pharmacist if you have any questions. You can also visit the Food and Drug Administration (FDA) website ( http://www.fda.gov/Drugs/DrugSafety/ucm085729.htm ) or the manufacturer's website to obtain the Medication Guide. Talk to your doctor about the risks of taking pioglitazone. Why is this medication prescribed? Pioglitazone is used with a diet and exercise program and sometimes with other medications, to treat type 2 diabetes (condition in which the body does not use insulin normally and therefore cannot control the amount of sugar in the blood). Pioglitazone is in a class of medications called thiazolidinediones. It works by increasing the body's sensitivity to insulin, a natural substance that helps control blood sugar levels. Pioglitazone is not used to treat type 1 diabetes (condition in which the body does not produce insulin and, therefore, cannot control the amount of sugar in the blood) or diabetic ketoacidosis (a serious condition that may develop if high blood sugar is not treated). Over time, people who have diabetes and high blood sugar can develop serious or life-threatening complications, including heart disease, stroke, kidney problems, nerve damage, and eye problems.Taking medication(s), making lifestyle changes (e.g., diet, exercise, quitting smoking), and regularly checking your blood sugar may help to manage your diabetes and improve your health. This therapy may also decrease your chances of having a heart attack, stroke, or other diabetes-related complications such as kidney failure, nerve damage (numb, cold legs or feet; decreased sexual ability in men and women), eye problems, including changes or loss of vision, or gum disease. Your doctor and other healthcare providers will talk to you about the best way to manage your diabetes. How should this medicine be used? Pioglitazone comes as a tablet to take by mouth. It is usually taken once daily with or without meals. Take pioglitazone at around the same time every day. Follow the directions on your prescription label carefully, and ask your doctor or pharmacist to explain any part you do not understand. Take pioglitazone exactly as directed. Do not take more or less of it or take it more often than prescribed by your doctor. Your doctor may start you on a low dose of pioglitazone and gradually increase your dose. Pioglitazone controls type 2 diabetes but does not cure it. It may take 2 weeks for your blood sugar to decrease and 2 to 3 months for you to feel the full effect of pioglitazone. Continue to take pioglitazone even if you feel well. Do not stop taking pioglitazone without talking to your doctor. Other uses for this medicine This medication may be prescribed for other uses; ask your doctor or pharmacist for more information. What special precautions should I follow? Before taking pioglitazone, tell your doctor and pharmacist if you are allergic to pioglitazone, any other medications, or any of the ingredients in pioglitazone tablets. Ask your pharmacist or check the Medication Guide for a list of the ingredients. tell your doctor and pharmacist what prescription and nonprescription medications, vitamins, nutritional supplements and herbal products you are taking or plan to take. Be sure to mention any of the following: atorvastatin (Lipitor, in Caduet), gemfibrozil (Lopid), hormonal contraceptives (birth control pills, patches, rings, implants, and injections), insulin or other medications to treat diabetes; ketoconazole (Nizoral), midazolam, nifedipine (Adalat, Afeditab, Procardia), ranitidine (Zantac), rifampin (Rifadin, Rifater, in Rifamate), and theophylline (Elixophyllin, Theo-24, Theochron). Your doctor may need to change the doses of your medications or monitor you carefully for side effects. tell your doctor if you have or have ever had any of the conditions mentioned in the IMPORTANT WARNING section, or if you have or have ever had bladder cancer, diabetic eye disease, or kidney or liver disease. tell your doctor if you are pregnant, plan to become pregnant, or are breast-feeding. If you become pregnant while taking pioglitazone, call your doctor. Do not breast-feed while you are taking pioglitazone. if you have not yet experienced menopause (change of life; end of monthly periods) you should know that pioglitazone may increase the chance that you will become pregnant even if you do not have regular monthly periods or if you have a condition that prevents you from ovulating (releasing an egg from the ovaries). Talk to your doctor about methods of birth control that will work for you. if you will be having surgery, including dental surgery, tell the doctor or dentist that you are taking pioglitazone. ask your doctor what to do if you get sick, develop an infection or fever, experience unusual stress, or are injured. These conditions can affect your blood sugar and the amount of pioglitazone you may need. What special dietary instructions should I follow? Be sure to follow all exercise and dietary recommendations made by your doctor or dietitian. It is important to eat a healthy diet, exercise regularly, and lose weight if necessary. This will help to control your diabetes and help pioglitazone work more effectively. Alcohol may cause a decrease in blood sugar. Ask your doctor about the safe use of alcoholic beverages while you are taking pioglitazone. What should I do if I forget a dose? If you remember that same day, take the missed dose as soon as your remember it. However, if you do not remember until the next day, skip the missed dose and continue your regular dosing schedule. Do not take more than one dose in one day and do not take a double dose to make up for a missed one. What side effects can this medication cause? This medication may cause changes in your blood sugar. You should know the symptoms of low and high blood sugar and what to do if you have these symptoms. Pioglitazone may cause side effects. Tell your doctor if any of these symptoms are severe or do not go away: headache muscle pain pain in the arms or legs sore throat gas Some side effects can be serious. If you experience any of the following symptoms or those mentioned in the IMPORTANT WARNING section, call your doctor immediately: changes in vision vision loss frequent, painful, or difficult urination cloudy, discolored, or bloody urine back or stomach pain You should know that pioglitazone may cause liver problems. Stop taking pioglitazone and call your doctor right away if you have nausea, vomiting, loss of appetite, pain in the upper right part of the stomach, flu-like symptoms, dark urine, yellowing of the skin or eyes, unusual bleeding or bruising, or lack of energy. In clinical studies, more people who took pioglitazone for more than one year developed bladder cancer than people who did not take pioglitazone Talk to your doctor about the risk of taking this medication. In clinical studies, more women who took pioglitazone developed fractures (broken bones), especially of the hands, upper arms, or feet, than women who did not take pioglitazone. Men who took pioglitazone did not have a greater risk of developing fractures than men who did not take the medication. If you are a woman, talk to your doctor about the risk of taking this medication. Pioglitazone may cause other side effects. Call your doctor if you have any unusual problems while you are taking this medication. If you experience a serious side effect, you or your doctor may send a report to the Food and Drug Administration's (FDA) MedWatch Adverse Event Reporting program online ( http://www.fda.gov/Safety/MedWatch ) or by phone (1-800-332-1088). What should I know about storage and disposal of this medication? Keep this medication in the container it came in, tightly closed, and out of reach of children. Store it at room temperature and away from excess heat, light, and moisture (not in the bathroom). Unneeded medications should be disposed of in special ways to ensure that pets, children, and other people cannot consume them. However, you should not flush this medication down the toilet. Instead, the best way to dispose of your medication is through a medicine take-back program. Talk to your pharmacist or contact your local garbage/recycling department to learn about take-back programs in your community. See the FDA's Safe Disposal of Medicines website ( http://goo.gl/c4Rm4p ) for more information if you do not have access to a take-back program. It is important to keep all medication out of sight and reach of children as many containers (such as weekly pill minders and those for eye drops, creams, patches, and inhalers) are not child-resistant and young children can open them easily. To protect young children from poisoning, always lock safety caps and immediately place the medication in a safe location – one that is up and away and out of their sight and reach. http://www.upandaway.org In case of emergency/overdose In case of overdose, call the poison control helpline at 1-800-222-1222. Information is also available online at https://www.poisonhelp.org/help . If the victim has collapsed, had a seizure, has trouble breathing, or can't be awakened, immediately call emergency services at 911. What other information should I know? Keep all appointments with your doctor, your eye doctor, and the laboratory. Your doctor will probably order regular eye examinations and certain laboratory tests before and during your treatment to check your body's response to pioglitazone. Your blood sugar and glycosolated hemoglobin should be checked regularly to determine your response to pioglitazone. Your doctor will also tell you how to check your response to pioglitazone by measuring your blood or urine sugar levels at home. Follow these directions carefully. You should always wear a diabetic identification bracelet to be sure you get proper treatment in an emergency. Do not let anyone else take your medication. Ask your pharmacist any questions you have about refilling your prescription. It is important for you to keep a written list of all of the prescription and nonprescription (over-the-counter) medicines you are taking, as well as any products such as vitamins, minerals, or other dietary supplements. You should bring this list with you each time you visit a doctor or if you are admitted to a hospital. It is also important information to carry with you in case of emergencies. Brand names Actos ® Oseni ® (as a combination product containing Alogliptin, Pioglitazone)





[ Aspirin pronounced as (as' pir in) To use the sharing features on this page, please enable JavaScript. Why is this medication prescribed? How should this medicine be used? Other uses for this medicine What special precautions should I follow? What special dietary instructions should I follow? What should I do if I forget a dose? What side effects can this medication cause? What should I know about storage and disposal of this medication? In case of emergency/overdose What other information should I know? Brand names Other names Why is this medication prescribed? Prescription aspirin is used to relieve the symptoms of rheumatoid arthritis (arthritis caused by swelling of the lining of the joints), osteoarthritis (arthritis caused by breakdown of the lining of the joints), systemic lupus erythematosus (condition in which the immune system attacks the joints and organs and causes pain and swelling) and certain other rheumatologic conditions (conditions in which the immune system attacks parts of the body). Nonprescription aspirin is used to reduce fever and to relieve mild to moderate pain from headaches, menstrual periods, arthritis, toothaches, and muscle aches. Nonprescription aspirin is also used to prevent heart attacks in people who have had a heart attack in the past or who have angina (chest pain that occurs when the heart does not get enough oxygen). Nonprescription aspirin is also used to reduce the risk of death in people who are experiencing or who have recently experienced a heart attack. Nonprescription aspirin is also used to prevent ischemic strokes (strokes that occur when a blood clot blocks the flow of blood to the brain) or mini-strokes (strokes that occur when the flow of blood to the brain is blocked for a short time) in people who have had this type of stroke or mini-stroke in the past. Aspirin will not prevent hemorrhagic strokes (strokes caused by bleeding in the brain). Aspirin is in a group of medications called salicylates. It works by stopping the production of certain natural substances that cause fever, pain, swelling, and blood clots. Aspirin is also available in combination with other medications such as antacids, pain relievers, and cough and cold medications. This monograph only includes information about the use of aspirin alone. If you are taking a combination product, read the information on the package or prescription label or ask your doctor or pharmacist for more information. How should this medicine be used? Prescription aspirin comes as an extended-release (long-acting) tablet. Nonprescription aspirin comes as a regular tablet, a delayed-release (releases the medication in the intestine to prevent damage to the stomach) tablet, a chewable tablet, powder, and a gum to take by mouth. Prescription aspirin is usually taken two or more times a day. Nonprescription aspirin is usually taken once a day to lower the risk of a heart attack or stroke. Nonprescription aspirin is usually taken every 4 to 6 hours as needed to treat fever or pain. Follow the directions on the package or prescription label carefully, and ask your doctor or pharmacist to explain any part you do not understand. Take aspirin exactly as directed. Do not take more or less of it or take it more often than directed by the package label or prescribed by your doctor. Swallow the extended-release tablets whole with a full glass of water. Do not break, crush, or chew them. Swallow the delayed-release tablets with a full glass of water. Chewable aspirin tablets may be chewed, crushed, or swallowed whole. Drink a full glass of water, immediately after taking these tablets. Ask a doctor before you give aspirin to your child or teenager. Aspirin may cause Reye's syndrome (a serious condition in which fat builds up on the brain, liver, and other body organs) in children and teenagers, especially if they have a virus such as chicken pox or the flu. If you have had oral surgery or surgery to remove your tonsils in the last 7 days, talk to your doctor about which types of aspirin are safe for you. Delayed-release tablets begin to work some time after they are taken. Do not take delayed-release tablets for fever or pain that must be relieved quickly. Stop taking aspirin and call your doctor if your fever lasts longer than 3 days, if your pain lasts longer than 10 days, or if the part of your body that was painful becomes red or swollen. You may have a condition that must be treated by a doctor. Other uses for this medicine Aspirin is also sometimes used to treat rheumatic fever (a serious condition that may develop after a strep throat infection and may cause swelling of the heart valves) and Kawasaki disease (an illness that may cause heart problems in children). Aspirin is also sometimes used to lower the risk of blood clots in patients who have artificial heart valves or certain other heart conditions and to prevent certain complications of pregnancy. What special precautions should I follow? Before taking aspirin, tell your doctor and pharmacist if you are allergic to aspirin, other medications for pain or fever, tartrazine dye, or any other medications. tell your doctor and pharmacist what prescription and nonprescription medications, vitamins, nutritional supplements, and herbal products you are taking or plan to take. Be sure to mention any of the following: acetazolamide (Diamox); angiotensin-converting enzyme (ACE) inhibitors such as benazepril (Lotensin), captopril (Capoten), enalapril (Vasotec), fosinopril (Monopril), lisinopril (Prinivil, Zestril), moexipril (Univasc), perindopril, (Aceon), quinapril (Accupril), ramipril (Altace), and trandolapril (Mavik); anticoagulants ('blood thinners') such as warfarin (Coumadin) and heparin; beta blockers such as atenolol (Tenormin), labetalol (Normodyne), metoprolol (Lopressor, Toprol XL), nadolol (Corgard), and propranolol (Inderal); diuretics ('water pills'); medications for diabetes or arthritis; medications for gout such as probenecid and sulfinpyrazone (Anturane); methotrexate (Trexall); other nonsteroidal anti-inflammatory drugs (NSAIDs) such as naproxen (Aleve, Naprosyn); phenytoin (Dilantin); and valproic acid (Depakene, Depakote). Your doctor may need to change the doses of your medications or monitor you more carefully for side effects. if you are taking aspirin on a regular basis to prevent heart attack or stroke, do not take ibuprofen (Advil, Motrin) to treat pain or fever without talking to your doctor. Your doctor will probably tell you to allow some time to pass between taking your daily dose of aspirin and taking a dose of ibuprofen. tell your doctor if you have or have ever had asthma, frequent stuffed or runny nose, or nasal polyps (growths on the linings of the nose). If you have these conditions, there is a risk that you will have an allergic reaction to aspirin. Your doctor may tell you that you should not take aspirin. tell your doctor if you often have heartburn, upset stomach, or stomach pain and if you have or have ever had ulcers, anemia, bleeding problems such as hemophilia, or kidney or liver disease. tell your doctor if you are pregnant, you plan to become pregnant, or if you are breast-feeding. Low dose aspirin 81-mg may be taken during pregnancy, but aspirin doses greater that 81 mg may harm the fetus and cause problems with delivery if it is taken around 20 weeks or later during pregnancy. Do not take aspirin doses greater that 81 mg (e.g., 325 mg) around or after 20 weeks of pregnancy, unless told to do so by your doctor. If you become pregnant while taking aspirin or aspirin containing medications, call your doctor. if you are having surgery, including dental surgery, tell the doctor or dentist that you are taking aspirin. if you drink three or more alcoholic drinks every day, ask your doctor if you should take aspirin or other medications for pain and fever. What special dietary instructions should I follow? Unless your doctor tells you otherwise, continue your normal diet. What should I do if I forget a dose? If your doctor has told you to take aspirin on a regular basis and you miss a dose, take the missed dose as soon as you remember it. However, if it is almost time for the next dose, skip the missed dose and continue your regular dosing schedule. Do not take a double dose to make up for a missed one. What side effects can this medication cause? Aspirin may cause side effects. Tell your doctor if any of these symptoms are severe or do not go away: nausea vomiting stomach pain heartburn Some side effects can be serious. If you experience any of the following symptoms, call your doctor immediately: hives rash swelling of the eyes, face, lips, tongue, or throat wheezing or difficulty breathing hoarseness fast heartbeat fast breathing cold, clammy skin ringing in the ears loss of hearing bloody vomit vomit that looks like coffee grounds bright red blood in stools black or tarry stools Aspirin may cause other side effects. Call your doctor if you experience any unusual problems while you are taking this medication. If you experience a serious side effect, you or your doctor may send a report to the Food and Drug Administration's (FDA) MedWatch Adverse Event Reporting program online ( http://www.fda.gov/Safety/MedWatch ) or by phone (1-800-332-1088). What should I know about storage and disposal of this medication? Keep this medication in the container it came in, tightly closed, and out of reach of children. Store it at room temperature and away from excess heat and moisture (not in the bathroom). Dispose of any tablets that have a strong vinegar smell. It is important to keep all medication out of sight and reach of children as many containers (such as weekly pill minders and those for eye drops, creams, patches, and inhalers) are not child-resistant and young children can open them easily. To protect young children from poisoning, always lock safety caps and immediately place the medication in a safe location – one that is up and away and out of their sight and reach. http://www.upandaway.org Unneeded medications should be disposed of in special ways to ensure that pets, children, and other people cannot consume them. However, you should not flush this medication down the toilet. Instead, the best way to dispose of your medication is through a medicine take-back program. Talk to your pharmacist or contact your local garbage/recycling department to learn about take-back programs in your community. See the FDA's Safe Disposal of Medicines website ( http://goo.gl/c4Rm4p ) for more information if you do not have access to a take-back program. In case of emergency/overdose In case of overdose, call the poison control helpline at 1-800-222-1222. Information is also available online at https://www.poisonhelp.org/help . If the victim has collapsed, had a seizure, has trouble breathing, or can't be awakened, immediately call emergency services at 911. Symptoms of overdose may include: burning pain in the throat or stomach vomiting decreased urination fever restlessness irritability talking a lot and saying things that do not make sense fear or nervousness dizziness double vision uncontrollable shaking of a part of the body confusion abnormally excited mood hallucination (seeing things or hearing voices that are not there) seizures drowsiness loss of consciousness for a period of time What other information should I know? Keep all appointments with your doctor. If you are taking prescription aspirin, do not let anyone else take your medication. Ask your pharmacist any questions you have about refilling your prescription. It is important for you to keep a written list of all of the prescription and nonprescription (over-the-counter) medicines you are taking, as well as any products such as vitamins, minerals, or other dietary supplements. You should bring this list with you each time you visit a doctor or if you are admitted to a hospital. It is also important information to carry with you in case of emergencies. Brand names Acuprin ® Anacin ® Aspirin Regimen Ascriptin ® Aspergum ® Aspidrox ® Aspir-Mox ® Aspirtab ® Aspir-trin ® Bayer ® Aspirin Bufferin ® Buffex ® Easprin ® Ecotrin ® Empirin ® Entaprin ® Entercote ® Fasprin ® Genacote ® Gennin-FC ® Genprin ® Halfprin ® Magnaprin ® Miniprin ® Minitabs ® Ridiprin ® Sloprin ® Uni-Buff ® Uni-Tren ® Valomag ® Zorprin ®



[ Acyclovir Topical pronounced as (ay sye' kloe veer) To use the sharing features on this page, please enable JavaScript. Why is this medication prescribed? How should this medicine be used? Other uses for this medicine What special precautions should I follow? What special dietary instructions should I follow? What should I do if I forget a dose? What side effects can this medication cause? What should I know about storage and disposal of this medication? In case of emergency/overdose What other information should I know? Brand names Other names Why is this medication prescribed? Acyclovir cream is used to treat cold sores (fever blisters; blisters that are caused by a virus called herpes simplex) on the face or lips. Acyclovir ointment is used to treat first outbreaks of genital herpes (a herpes virus infection that causes sores to form around the genitals and rectum from time to time) and to treat certain types of sores caused by the herpes simplex virus in people with weak immune systems. Acyclovir is in a class of antiviral medications called synthetic nucleoside analogues. It works by stopping the spread of the herpes virus in the body. Acyclovir does not cure cold sores or genital herpes, does not prevent outbreaks of these conditions, and does not stop the spread of these conditions to other people. How should this medicine be used? Topical acyclovir comes as a cream and an ointment to apply to the skin. Acyclovir cream is usually applied 5 times a day for 4 days. Acyclovir cream may be applied at any time during a cold sore outbreak, but it works best when it is applied at the very beginning of a cold sore outbreak, when there is tingling, redness, itching, or a bump but the cold sore has not yet formed. Acyclovir ointment is usually applied 6 times a day (usually 3 hours apart) for 7 days. It is best to begin using acyclovir ointment as soon as possible after you experience the first symptoms of infection. Follow the directions on your prescription label carefully, and ask your doctor or pharmacist to explain any part you do not understand. Use topical acyclovir exactly as directed. Do not use more or less of it or use it more often than prescribed by your doctor. Your symptoms should improve during your treatment with topical acyclovir. If your symptoms do not improve or if they get worse, call your doctor. Acyclovir cream and ointment are for use only on the skin. Do not let acyclovir cream or ointment get into your eyes, or inside your mouth or nose, and do not swallow the medication. Acyclovir cream should only be applied to skin where a cold sore has formed or seems likely to form. Do not apply acyclovir cream to any unaffected skin, or to genital herpes sores. Do not apply other skin medications or other types of skin products such as cosmetics, sun screen, or lip balm to the cold sore area while using acyclovir cream unless your doctor tells you that you should. To use acyclovir cream, follow these steps: Wash your hands. Clean and dry the area of skin where you will be applying the cream. Apply a layer of cream to cover the skin where the cold sore has formed or seems likely to form. Rub the cream into the skin until it disappears. Leave the skin where you applied the medication uncovered. Do not apply a bandage or dressing unless your doctor tells you that you should. Wash your hands with soap and water to remove any cream left on your hands. Be careful not to wash the cream off of your skin. Do not bathe, shower, or swim right after applying acyclovir cream. Avoid irritation of the cold sore area while using acyclovir cream. To use acyclovir ointment, follow these steps: Put on a clean finger cot or rubber glove. Apply enough ointment to cover all of your sores. Take off the finger cot or rubber glove and dispose of it safely, so that it is out of reach of children. Keep the affected area(s) clean and dry, and avoid wearing tight-fitting clothing over the affected area. Ask your pharmacist or doctor for a copy of the manufacturer's information for the patient. Read this information before you start using acyclovir and each time you refill your prescription. Other uses for this medicine This medication may be prescribed for other uses; ask your doctor or pharmacist for more information. What special precautions should I follow? Before using topical acyclovir, tell your doctor and pharmacist if you are allergic to acyclovir, valacyclovir (Valtrex), any other medications, or any of the ingredients in acyclovir cream or ointment. Ask your pharmacist for a list of the ingredients. Tell your doctor and pharmacist what prescription and nonprescription medications, vitamins, nutritional supplements, and herbal products you are taking or plan to take. tell your doctor if you have or have ever had any condition that affects your immune system such as human immunodeficiency virus (HIV) or acquired immunodeficiency syndrome (AIDS). tell your doctor if you are pregnant, plan to become pregnant, or are breast-feeding. If you become pregnant while using acyclovir, call your doctor. What special dietary instructions should I follow? Unless your doctor tells you otherwise, continue your normal diet. What should I do if I forget a dose? Apply the missed dose as soon as you remember it. However, if it is almost time for the next dose, skip the missed dose and continue your regular dosing schedule. Do not apply extra cream or ointment to make up for a missed dose. What side effects can this medication cause? Topical acyclovir may cause side effects. Tell your doctor if any of these symptoms are severe or do not go away: dry or cracked lips flaky, peeling, or dry skin burning or stinging skin redness, swelling, or irritation in the place where you applied the medication Some side effects can be serious. If you experience any of these symptoms, call your doctor immediately: hives rash itching difficulty breathing or swallowing swelling of the face, throat, lips, eyes, hands, feet, ankles, or lower legs hoarseness Topical acyclovir may cause other side effects. Call your doctor if you have any unusual problems while using this medication. If you experience a serious side effect, you or your doctor may send a report to the Food and Drug Administration's (FDA) MedWatch Adverse Event Reporting program online ( http://www.fda.gov/Safety/MedWatch ) or by phone (1-800-332-1088). What should I know about storage and disposal of this medication? Keep this medication in the container it came in, with the cap on and tightly closed, and out of reach of children. Store it at room temperature and away from excess heat and moisture (not in the bathroom). Never leave this medication in your car in cold or hot weather. Unneeded medications should be disposed of in special ways to ensure that pets, children, and other people cannot consume them. However, you should not flush this medication down the toilet. Instead, the best way to dispose of your medication is through a medicine take-back program. Talk to your pharmacist or contact your local garbage/recycling department to learn about take-back programs in your community. See the FDA's Safe Disposal of Medicines website ( http://goo.gl/c4Rm4p ) for more information if you do not have access to a take-back program. It is important to keep all medication out of sight and reach of children as many containers (such as weekly pill minders and those for eye drops, creams, patches, and inhalers) are not child-resistant and young children can open them easily. To protect young children from poisoning, always lock safety caps and immediately place the medication in a safe location – one that is up and away and out of their sight and reach. http://www.upandaway.org In case of emergency/overdose If someone swallows topical acyclovir, call your local poison control center at 1-800-222-1222. If the victim has collapsed or is not breathing, call local emergency services at 911. What other information should I know? Keep all appointments with your doctor. Do not let anyone else use your medication. Ask your pharmacist any questions you have about refilling your prescription. It is important for you to keep a written list of all of the prescription and nonprescription (over-the-counter) medicines you are taking, as well as any products such as vitamins, minerals, or other dietary supplements. You should bring this list with you each time you visit a doctor or if you are admitted to a hospital. It is also important information to carry with you in case of emergencies. Brand names Zovirax ® Cream Zovirax ® Ointment



[ Acyclovir Topical pronounced as (ay sye' kloe veer) To use the sharing features on this page, please enable JavaScript. Why is this medication prescribed? How should this medicine be used? Other uses for this medicine What special precautions should I follow? What special dietary instructions should I follow? What should I do if I forget a dose? What side effects can this medication cause? What should I know about storage and disposal of this medication? In case of emergency/overdose What other information should I know? Brand names Other names Why is this medication prescribed? Acyclovir cream is used to treat cold sores (fever blisters; blisters that are caused by a virus called herpes simplex) on the face or lips. Acyclovir ointment is used to treat first outbreaks of genital herpes (a herpes virus infection that causes sores to form around the genitals and rectum from time to time) and to treat certain types of sores caused by the herpes simplex virus in people with weak immune systems. Acyclovir is in a class of antiviral medications called synthetic nucleoside analogues. It works by stopping the spread of the herpes virus in the body. Acyclovir does not cure cold sores or genital herpes, does not prevent outbreaks of these conditions, and does not stop the spread of these conditions to other people. How should this medicine be used? Topical acyclovir comes as a cream and an ointment to apply to the skin. Acyclovir cream is usually applied 5 times a day for 4 days. Acyclovir cream may be applied at any time during a cold sore outbreak, but it works best when it is applied at the very beginning of a cold sore outbreak, when there is tingling, redness, itching, or a bump but the cold sore has not yet formed. Acyclovir ointment is usually applied 6 times a day (usually 3 hours apart) for 7 days. It is best to begin using acyclovir ointment as soon as possible after you experience the first symptoms of infection. Follow the directions on your prescription label carefully, and ask your doctor or pharmacist to explain any part you do not understand. Use topical acyclovir exactly as directed. Do not use more or less of it or use it more often than prescribed by your doctor. Your symptoms should improve during your treatment with topical acyclovir. If your symptoms do not improve or if they get worse, call your doctor. Acyclovir cream and ointment are for use only on the skin. Do not let acyclovir cream or ointment get into your eyes, or inside your mouth or nose, and do not swallow the medication. Acyclovir cream should only be applied to skin where a cold sore has formed or seems likely to form. Do not apply acyclovir cream to any unaffected skin, or to genital herpes sores. Do not apply other skin medications or other types of skin products such as cosmetics, sun screen, or lip balm to the cold sore area while using acyclovir cream unless your doctor tells you that you should. To use acyclovir cream, follow these steps: Wash your hands. Clean and dry the area of skin where you will be applying the cream. Apply a layer of cream to cover the skin where the cold sore has formed or seems likely to form. Rub the cream into the skin until it disappears. Leave the skin where you applied the medication uncovered. Do not apply a bandage or dressing unless your doctor tells you that you should. Wash your hands with soap and water to remove any cream left on your hands. Be careful not to wash the cream off of your skin. Do not bathe, shower, or swim right after applying acyclovir cream. Avoid irritation of the cold sore area while using acyclovir cream. To use acyclovir ointment, follow these steps: Put on a clean finger cot or rubber glove. Apply enough ointment to cover all of your sores. Take off the finger cot or rubber glove and dispose of it safely, so that it is out of reach of children. Keep the affected area(s) clean and dry, and avoid wearing tight-fitting clothing over the affected area. Ask your pharmacist or doctor for a copy of the manufacturer's information for the patient. Read this information before you start using acyclovir and each time you refill your prescription. Other uses for this medicine This medication may be prescribed for other uses; ask your doctor or pharmacist for more information. What special precautions should I follow? Before using topical acyclovir, tell your doctor and pharmacist if you are allergic to acyclovir, valacyclovir (Valtrex), any other medications, or any of the ingredients in acyclovir cream or ointment. Ask your pharmacist for a list of the ingredients. Tell your doctor and pharmacist what prescription and nonprescription medications, vitamins, nutritional supplements, and herbal products you are taking or plan to take. tell your doctor if you have or have ever had any condition that affects your immune system such as human immunodeficiency virus (HIV) or acquired immunodeficiency syndrome (AIDS). tell your doctor if you are pregnant, plan to become pregnant, or are breast-feeding. If you become pregnant while using acyclovir, call your doctor. What special dietary instructions should I follow? Unless your doctor tells you otherwise, continue your normal diet. What should I do if I forget a dose? Apply the missed dose as soon as you remember it. However, if it is almost time for the next dose, skip the missed dose and continue your regular dosing schedule. Do not apply extra cream or ointment to make up for a missed dose. What side effects can this medication cause? Topical acyclovir may cause side effects. Tell your doctor if any of these symptoms are severe or do not go away: dry or cracked lips flaky, peeling, or dry skin burning or stinging skin redness, swelling, or irritation in the place where you applied the medication Some side effects can be serious. If you experience any of these symptoms, call your doctor immediately: hives rash itching difficulty breathing or swallowing swelling of the face, throat, lips, eyes, hands, feet, ankles, or lower legs hoarseness Topical acyclovir may cause other side effects. Call your doctor if you have any unusual problems while using this medication. If you experience a serious side effect, you or your doctor may send a report to the Food and Drug Administration's (FDA) MedWatch Adverse Event Reporting program online ( http://www.fda.gov/Safety/MedWatch ) or by phone (1-800-332-1088). What should I know about storage and disposal of this medication? Keep this medication in the container it came in, with the cap on and tightly closed, and out of reach of children. Store it at room temperature and away from excess heat and moisture (not in the bathroom). Never leave this medication in your car in cold or hot weather. Unneeded medications should be disposed of in special ways to ensure that pets, children, and other people cannot consume them. However, you should not flush this medication down the toilet. Instead, the best way to dispose of your medication is through a medicine take-back program. Talk to your pharmacist or contact your local garbage/recycling department to learn about take-back programs in your community. See the FDA's Safe Disposal of Medicines website ( http://goo.gl/c4Rm4p ) for more information if you do not have access to a take-back program. It is important to keep all medication out of sight and reach of children as many containers (such as weekly pill minders and those for eye drops, creams, patches, and inhalers) are not child-resistant and young children can open them easily. To protect young children from poisoning, always lock safety caps and immediately place the medication in a safe location – one that is up and away and out of their sight and reach. http://www.upandaway.org In case of emergency/overdose If someone swallows topical acyclovir, call your local poison control center at 1-800-222-1222. If the victim has collapsed or is not breathing, call local emergency services at 911. What other information should I know? Keep all appointments with your doctor. Do not let anyone else use your medication. Ask your pharmacist any questions you have about refilling your prescription. It is important for you to keep a written list of all of the prescription and nonprescription (over-the-counter) medicines you are taking, as well as any products such as vitamins, minerals, or other dietary supplements. You should bring this list with you each time you visit a doctor or if you are admitted to a hospital. It is also important information to carry with you in case of emergencies. Brand names Zovirax ® Cream Zovirax ® Ointment











[ Acyclovir Topical pronounced as (ay sye' kloe veer) To use the sharing features on this page, please enable JavaScript. Why is this medication prescribed? How should this medicine be used? Other uses for this medicine What special precautions should I follow? What special dietary instructions should I follow? What should I do if I forget a dose? What side effects can this medication cause? What should I know about storage and disposal of this medication? In case of emergency/overdose What other information should I know? Brand names Other names Why is this medication prescribed? Acyclovir cream is used to treat cold sores (fever blisters; blisters that are caused by a virus called herpes simplex) on the face or lips. Acyclovir ointment is used to treat first outbreaks of genital herpes (a herpes virus infection that causes sores to form around the genitals and rectum from time to time) and to treat certain types of sores caused by the herpes simplex virus in people with weak immune systems. Acyclovir is in a class of antiviral medications called synthetic nucleoside analogues. It works by stopping the spread of the herpes virus in the body. Acyclovir does not cure cold sores or genital herpes, does not prevent outbreaks of these conditions, and does not stop the spread of these conditions to other people. How should this medicine be used? Topical acyclovir comes as a cream and an ointment to apply to the skin. Acyclovir cream is usually applied 5 times a day for 4 days. Acyclovir cream may be applied at any time during a cold sore outbreak, but it works best when it is applied at the very beginning of a cold sore outbreak, when there is tingling, redness, itching, or a bump but the cold sore has not yet formed. Acyclovir ointment is usually applied 6 times a day (usually 3 hours apart) for 7 days. It is best to begin using acyclovir ointment as soon as possible after you experience the first symptoms of infection. Follow the directions on your prescription label carefully, and ask your doctor or pharmacist to explain any part you do not understand. Use topical acyclovir exactly as directed. Do not use more or less of it or use it more often than prescribed by your doctor. Your symptoms should improve during your treatment with topical acyclovir. If your symptoms do not improve or if they get worse, call your doctor. Acyclovir cream and ointment are for use only on the skin. Do not let acyclovir cream or ointment get into your eyes, or inside your mouth or nose, and do not swallow the medication. Acyclovir cream should only be applied to skin where a cold sore has formed or seems likely to form. Do not apply acyclovir cream to any unaffected skin, or to genital herpes sores. Do not apply other skin medications or other types of skin products such as cosmetics, sun screen, or lip balm to the cold sore area while using acyclovir cream unless your doctor tells you that you should. To use acyclovir cream, follow these steps: Wash your hands. Clean and dry the area of skin where you will be applying the cream. Apply a layer of cream to cover the skin where the cold sore has formed or seems likely to form. Rub the cream into the skin until it disappears. Leave the skin where you applied the medication uncovered. Do not apply a bandage or dressing unless your doctor tells you that you should. Wash your hands with soap and water to remove any cream left on your hands. Be careful not to wash the cream off of your skin. Do not bathe, shower, or swim right after applying acyclovir cream. Avoid irritation of the cold sore area while using acyclovir cream. To use acyclovir ointment, follow these steps: Put on a clean finger cot or rubber glove. Apply enough ointment to cover all of your sores. Take off the finger cot or rubber glove and dispose of it safely, so that it is out of reach of children. Keep the affected area(s) clean and dry, and avoid wearing tight-fitting clothing over the affected area. Ask your pharmacist or doctor for a copy of the manufacturer's information for the patient. Read this information before you start using acyclovir and each time you refill your prescription. Other uses for this medicine This medication may be prescribed for other uses; ask your doctor or pharmacist for more information. What special precautions should I follow? Before using topical acyclovir, tell your doctor and pharmacist if you are allergic to acyclovir, valacyclovir (Valtrex), any other medications, or any of the ingredients in acyclovir cream or ointment. Ask your pharmacist for a list of the ingredients. Tell your doctor and pharmacist what prescription and nonprescription medications, vitamins, nutritional supplements, and herbal products you are taking or plan to take. tell your doctor if you have or have ever had any condition that affects your immune system such as human immunodeficiency virus (HIV) or acquired immunodeficiency syndrome (AIDS). tell your doctor if you are pregnant, plan to become pregnant, or are breast-feeding. If you become pregnant while using acyclovir, call your doctor. What special dietary instructions should I follow? Unless your doctor tells you otherwise, continue your normal diet. What should I do if I forget a dose? Apply the missed dose as soon as you remember it. However, if it is almost time for the next dose, skip the missed dose and continue your regular dosing schedule. Do not apply extra cream or ointment to make up for a missed dose. What side effects can this medication cause? Topical acyclovir may cause side effects. Tell your doctor if any of these symptoms are severe or do not go away: dry or cracked lips flaky, peeling, or dry skin burning or stinging skin redness, swelling, or irritation in the place where you applied the medication Some side effects can be serious. If you experience any of these symptoms, call your doctor immediately: hives rash itching difficulty breathing or swallowing swelling of the face, throat, lips, eyes, hands, feet, ankles, or lower legs hoarseness Topical acyclovir may cause other side effects. Call your doctor if you have any unusual problems while using this medication. If you experience a serious side effect, you or your doctor may send a report to the Food and Drug Administration's (FDA) MedWatch Adverse Event Reporting program online ( http://www.fda.gov/Safety/MedWatch ) or by phone (1-800-332-1088). What should I know about storage and disposal of this medication? Keep this medication in the container it came in, with the cap on and tightly closed, and out of reach of children. Store it at room temperature and away from excess heat and moisture (not in the bathroom). Never leave this medication in your car in cold or hot weather. Unneeded medications should be disposed of in special ways to ensure that pets, children, and other people cannot consume them. However, you should not flush this medication down the toilet. Instead, the best way to dispose of your medication is through a medicine take-back program. Talk to your pharmacist or contact your local garbage/recycling department to learn about take-back programs in your community. See the FDA's Safe Disposal of Medicines website ( http://goo.gl/c4Rm4p ) for more information if you do not have access to a take-back program. It is important to keep all medication out of sight and reach of children as many containers (such as weekly pill minders and those for eye drops, creams, patches, and inhalers) are not child-resistant and young children can open them easily. To protect young children from poisoning, always lock safety caps and immediately place the medication in a safe location – one that is up and away and out of their sight and reach. http://www.upandaway.org In case of emergency/overdose If someone swallows topical acyclovir, call your local poison control center at 1-800-222-1222. If the victim has collapsed or is not breathing, call local emergency services at 911. What other information should I know? Keep all appointments with your doctor. Do not let anyone else use your medication. Ask your pharmacist any questions you have about refilling your prescription. It is important for you to keep a written list of all of the prescription and nonprescription (over-the-counter) medicines you are taking, as well as any products such as vitamins, minerals, or other dietary supplements. You should bring this list with you each time you visit a doctor or if you are admitted to a hospital. It is also important information to carry with you in case of emergencies. Brand names Zovirax ® Cream Zovirax ® Ointment





[ Tetanus, Diphtheria, Pertussis (Tdap) Vaccine To use the sharing features on this page, please enable JavaScript. Why get vaccinated? What is Tdap vaccine? Talk with your healthcare provider What are the risks of a vaccine reaction? What if there is a serious reaction? The National Vaccine Injury Compensation Program How can I learn more? Other names Why get vaccinated? Tdap vaccine can prevent tetanus, diphtheria, and pertussis. Diphtheria and pertussis spread from person to person. Tetanus enters the body through cuts or wounds. TETANUS (T) causes painful stiffening of the muscles. Tetanus can lead to serious health problems, including being unable to open the mouth, having trouble swallowing and breathing, or death. DIPHTHERIA (D) can lead to difficulty breathing, heart failure, paralysis, or death. PERTUSSIS (aP) , also known as "whooping cough," can cause uncontrollable, violent coughing that makes it hard to breathe, eat, or drink. Pertussis can be extremely serious especially in babies and young children, causing pneumonia, convulsions, brain damage, or death. In teens and adults, it can cause weight loss, loss of bladder control, passing out, and rib fractures from severe coughing. What is Tdap vaccine? Tdap is only for children 7 years and older, adolescents, and adults. Adolescents should receive a single dose of Tdap, preferably at age 11 or 12 years. .Pregnant people should get a dose of Tdap during every pregnancy, preferably during the early part of the third trimester, to help protect the newborn from pertussis. Infants are most at risk for severe, lifethreatening complications from pertussis. Adults who have never received Tdap should get a dose of Tdap. Also, adults should receive a booster dose of either Tdap or Td (a different vaccine that protects against tetanus and diphtheria but not pertussis) every 10 years, or after 5 years in the case of a severe or dirty wound or burn. Tdap may be given at the same time as other vaccines. Talk with your healthcare provider Tell your vaccination provider if the person getting the vaccine: Has had an allergic reaction after a previous dose of any vaccine that protects against tetanus, diphtheria, or pertussis, or has any severe, life-threatening allergies Has had a coma, decreased level of consciousness, or prolonged seizures within 7 days after a previous dose of any pertussis vaccine (DTP, DTaP, or Tdap) Has seizures or another nervous system problem Has ever had Guillain-Barré Syndrome (also called "GBS") Has had severe pain or swelling after a previous dose of any vaccine that protects against tetanus or diphtheria In some cases, your health care provider may decide to postpone Tdap vaccination until a future visit. People with minor illnesses, such as a cold, may be vaccinated. People who are moderately or severely ill should usually wait until they recover before getting Tdap vaccine. Your health care provider can give you more information. What are the risks of a vaccine reaction? Pain, redness, or swelling where the shot was given, mild fever, headache, feeling tired, and nausea, vomiting, diarrhea, or stomachache sometimes happen after Tdap vaccination. People sometimes faint after medical procedures, including vaccination. Tell your provider if you feel dizzy or have vision changes or ringing in the ears. As with any medicine, there is a very remote chance of a vaccine causing a severe allergic reaction, other serious injury, or death. What if there is a serious reaction? An allergic reaction could occur after the vaccinated person leaves the clinic. If you see signs of a severe allergic reaction (hives, swelling of the face and throat, difficulty breathing, a fast heartbeat, dizziness, or weakness), call 9-1-1 and get the person to the nearest hospital. For other signs that concern you, call your health care provider. Adverse reactions should be reported to the Vaccine Adverse Event Reporting System (VAERS). Your health care provider will usually file this report, or you can do it yourself. Visit the VAERS website at http://www.vaers.hhs.gov or call 1-800-822-7967 . VAERS is only for reporting reactions, and VAERS staff members do not give medical advice. The National Vaccine Injury Compensation Program The National Vaccine Injury Compensation Program (VICP) is a federal program that was created to compensate people who may have been injured by certain vaccines. Claims regarding alleged injury or death due to vaccination have a time limit for filing, which may be as short as two years. Visit the VICP website at http://www.hrsa.gov/vaccinecompensation or call 1-800-338-2382 to learn about the program and about filing a claim. How can I learn more? Ask your healthcare provider. Call your local or state health department. Visit the website of the Food and Drug Administration (FDA) for vaccine package inserts and additional information at http://www.fda.gov/vaccines-blood-biologics/vaccines . Contact the Centers for Disease Control and Prevention (CDC): Call 1-800-232-4636 or visit CDC's website at http://www.cdc.gov/vaccines . Tdap Vaccine Vaccine Information Statement. U.S. Department of Health and Human Services/Centers for Disease Control and Prevention National Immunization Program. 8/6/2021.













[ Adapalene pronounced as (a dap' a leen)  Adapalene is used to treat acne in adults and children 12 years of and older. Adapalene is in a class of medications called retinoid-like compounds. It works by stopping pimples from forming under the surface of the skin. How should this medicine be used? Prescription adapalene comes as a gel, a solution (liquid), lotion, a cream, and a pledget (individual medicated swab for one time use) to apply to the skin. Nonprescription (over the counter) adapalene comes as a gel to apply to the skin. Adapalene is usually applied once a day at bedtime. Follow the directions on your prescription label or the package label carefully, and ask your doctor or pharmacist to explain any part you do not understand. Apply adapalene exactly as directed. Do not apply more or less of it or apply it more often than prescribed by your doctor or stated on the package. Applying more adapalene or applying adaplene more often than recommended will not speed up or improve results, but it may irritate your skin. Adapalene controls acne but does not cure it. Your acne may get worse during the first few weeks of treatment, and it may take 8 to 12 weeks or longer before you feel the full benefit of adapalene. During the first weeks of your treatment, adapalene may bring previously unseen pimples to the skin surface. Continue to use adapalene even if your acne worsens or you do not see much improvement at first. Do not apply adapalene to skin that is sunburned, broken, or covered with eczema (a skin disease). If you have any of these conditions, do not apply adapalene until your skin has healed. Be careful not to get adapalene in your eyes, nose, mouth, or vagina. If you do get adapalene in your eyes, your eyes may become red, irritated, or swollen. Your skin may become dry or irritated during the first 2–4 weeks of your treatment. If your skin stings, burns, or becomes irritated at any time during your treatment, talk to your doctor. Your doctor may tell you to use a moisturizer to help with dryness or tell you to apply Adapalene less often. Ask your pharmacist or doctor for a copy of the manufacturer's information for the patient. To use the cream, gel, lotion, solution, or pledgets, follow these steps: Gently wash the affected skin with a mild soap or soapless cleanser and pat dry with a soft towel. Do not use harsh or abrasive cleansers, and do not scrub your skin vigorously. Ask your doctor or pharmacist to recommend a gentle cleanser. If you are using the gel or cream, use your fingers to spread a thin film of medication over the affected area. If you are using a pledget, remove it from the foil pouch and gently wipe the affected area. If you are using the solution, apply a thin layer to the affected area using a clean cotton swab or other applicator. Adapalene lotion comes in a pump that dispenses measured amounts of the medication. If you are using the lotion, press down on the top of the pump 3–4 times so that the medication comes out onto your palm and apply a thin film of the medication over the affected area. Adapalene should be applied to the entire affected area, not only to a single pimple or spot. You may feel a slight warmth or stinging in the place where you applied adapalene. This feeling is normal and should go away by itself in a short time. If you used a pledget, discard it after use. Do not save it to use again. Other uses for this medicine This medication may be prescribed for other uses; ask your doctor or pharmacist for more information. What special precautions should I follow? Before taking adapalene, tell your doctor and pharmacist if you are allergic to adapalene, any other medications, or any ingredient in adapalene topical products. Ask your pharmacist for a list of the ingredients. tell your doctor and pharmacist what prescription and nonprescription medications, vitamins, nutritional supplements, and herbal products you are taking or plan to take. tell your doctor if you have or have ever had eczema or any other skin condition. tell your doctor if you are pregnant, plan to become pregnant, or are breast-feeding. If you become pregnant while using adapalene, call your doctor. If you are breastfeeding while using adapalene, apply the smallest amount to the skin and do not apply it directly to the nipple and areola (the colored area around each nipple). plan to avoid unnecessary or prolonged exposure to real and artificial sunlight (tanning beds and sunlamps) and to wear protective clothing, sunglasses, and sunscreen, especially if you sunburn easily. Adapalene may make your skin sensitive to sunlight or ultraviolet light. you should know that weather extremes, such as wind and cold, may be particularly irritating. tell your doctor about all skin products that you use, including soaps, cleansers, moisturizers, and cosmetics. Many skin care products can irritate your skin, if you use them with adapalene, especially those that are harsh, dry out the skin, or contain alcohol, spices, or lime rind. If you have been using these products, your doctor may want you to wait before you begin using adapalene. Ask your doctor to recommend products that will not irritate your skin. do not use hot wax to remove unwanted hair from the area you are treating with adapalene during your treatment with this medication. What special dietary instructions should I follow? Unless your doctor tells you otherwise, continue your normal diet. What should I do if I forget a dose? Apply the missed dose as soon as you remember it. However, if it is almost time for the next dose, skip the missed dose and continue your regular dosing schedule. Do not apply a double dose to make up for a missed one. What side effects can this medication cause? Adapalene may cause side effects. The following symptoms are likely to affect your skin during the first 2-4 weeks of treatment. Tell your doctor if any of these symptoms are severe or do not go away: redness scaling dryness burning or stinging pain at the application site Some side effects can be serious. If you experience any of these symptoms, call your doctor immediately or get emergency medical treatment: hives, itching, shortness of breath or difficulty breathing swelling of the eyes, face, lips, tongue, or throat Adapalene may cause other side effects. Call your doctor if you have any unusual problems while taking this medication. If you experience a serious side effect, you or your doctor may send a report to the Food and Drug Administration's (FDA) MedWatch Adverse Event Reporting program online ( http://www.fda.gov/Safety/MedWatch ) or by phone (1-800-332-1088). What should I know about storage and disposal of this medication? Keep this medication in the container it came in, tightly closed, and out of reach of children. Store it at room temperature and away from excess heat and moisture (not in the bathroom). Unneeded medications should be disposed of in special ways to ensure that pets, children, and other people cannot consume them. However, you should not flush this medication down the toilet. Instead, the best way to dispose of your medication is through a medicine take-back program. Talk to your pharmacist or contact your local garbage/recycling department to learn about take-back programs in your community. See the FDA's Safe Disposal of Medicines website ( http://goo.gl/c4Rm4p ) for more information if you do not have access to a take-back program. It is important to keep all medication out of sight and reach of children as many containers (such as weekly pill minders and those for eye drops, creams, patches, and inhalers) are not child-resistant and young children can open them easily. To protect young children from poisoning, always lock safety caps and immediately place the medication in a safe location – one that is up and away and out of their sight and reach. http://www.upandaway.org In case of emergency/overdose If someone swallows adapalene, call your local poison control center at 1-800-222-1222. If the victim has collapsed or is not breathing, call local emergency services at 911. What other information should I know? Keep all appointments with your doctor. Do not let anyone else use your medication. Ask your pharmacist any questions you have about refilling your prescription. It is important for you to keep a written list of all of the prescription and nonprescription (over-the-counter) medicines you are taking, as well as any products such as vitamins, minerals, or other dietary supplements. You should bring this list with you each time you visit a doctor or if you are admitted to a hospital. It is also important information to carry with you in case of emergencies. Brand names Differin ®







[ Ibuprofen pronounced as (eye byoo' proe fen) To use the sharing features on this page, please enable JavaScript. Why is this medication prescribed? How should this medicine be used? Other uses for this medicine What special precautions should I follow? What special dietary instructions should I follow? What should I do if I forget a dose? What side effects can this medication cause? What should I know about storage and disposal of this medication? In case of emergency/overdose What other information should I know? Brand names IMPORTANT WARNING: People who take nonsteroidal anti-inflammatory drugs (NSAIDs) (other than aspirin) such as ibuprofen may have a higher risk of having a heart attack or a stroke than people who do not take these medications. These events may happen without warning and may cause death. These problems may develop at any time during treatment, but the risk may be higher for people who take NSAIDs for a long time or at higher doses. Do not take an NSAID such as ibuprofen if you have recently had a heart attack, unless directed to do so by your doctor. Tell your doctor if you or anyone in your family has or has ever had heart disease, a heart attack, or a stroke; if you smoke; and if you have or have ever had high cholesterol, high blood pressure, or diabetes. Get emergency medical help right away if you experience any of the following symptoms: chest pain, shortness of breath, weakness in one part or side of the body, or slurred speech. If you will be undergoing a coronary artery bypass graft (CABG; a type of heart surgery), you should not take ibuprofen right before or right after the surgery. NSAIDs such as ibuprofen may cause ulcers, bleeding, or holes in the esophagus (tube between the mouth and stomach), stomach, or intestine. These problems may develop at any time during treatment, may happen without warning symptoms, and may cause death. The risk may be higher for people who take NSAIDs for a long time, are older in age, have poor health, who smoke, or who drink large amounts of alcohol while taking ibuprofen. Tell your doctor if you take any of the following medications: anticoagulants ('blood thinners'); aspirin; other NSAIDs such as naproxen (Aleve, Naprosyn); oral steroids such as dexamethasone, methylprednisolone (Medrol), and prednisone (Rayos);selective serotonin reuptake inhibitors (SSRIs) such as citalopram (Celexa), fluoxetine (Prozac, Sarafem, Selfemra, in Symbyax), fluvoxamine (Luvox), paroxetine (Brisdelle, Paxil, Pexeva), and sertraline (Zoloft); or serotonin norepinephrine reuptake inhibitors (SNRIs) such as desvenlafaxine (Khedezla, Pristiq), duloxetine (Cymbalta), and venlafaxine (Effexor XR). Also tell your doctor if you have or have ever had ulcers, bleeding in your stomach or intestines, or other bleeding disorders. If you experience any of the following symptoms, stop taking ibuprofen and call your doctor: stomach pain, heartburn, vomit that is bloody or looks like coffee grounds, blood in the stool, or black and tarry stools. Keep all appointments with your doctor and the laboratory. Your doctor will monitor your symptoms carefully and will probably order certain tests to check your body's response to ibuprofen. Be sure to tell your doctor how you are feeling so that your doctor can prescribe the right amount of medication to treat your condition with the lowest risk of serious side effects. Your doctor or pharmacist will give you the manufacturer's patient information sheet (Medication Guide) when you begin treatment with prescription ibuprofen and each time you refill your prescription. Read the information carefully and ask your doctor or pharmacist if you have any questions. You can also visit the Food and Drug Administration (FDA) website ( http://www.fda.gov/Drugs/DrugSafety/ucm085729.htm ) or the manufacturer's website to obtain the Medication Guide. Why is this medication prescribed? Prescription ibuprofen is used to relieve pain, tenderness, swelling, and stiffness caused by osteoarthritis (arthritis caused by a breakdown of the lining of the joints) and rheumatoid arthritis (arthritis caused by swelling of the lining of the joints). It is also used to relieve mild to moderate pain, including menstrual pain (pain that happens before or during a menstrual period). Nonprescription ibuprofen is used to reduce fever and to relieve minor aches and pain from headaches, muscle aches, arthritis, menstrual periods, the common cold, toothaches, and backaches. Ibuprofen is in a class of medications called NSAIDs. It works by stopping the body's production of a substance that causes pain, fever, and inflammation. How should this medicine be used? Prescription ibuprofen comes as a tablet and suspension (liquid) to take by mouth. It is usually taken three or four times a day for arthritis or every 4 to 6 hours as needed for pain. Nonprescription ibuprofen comes as a tablet, chewable tablet, capsule, gel capsule, suspension (liquid), and drops (concentrated liquid). Adults and children older than 12 years of age may usually take nonprescription ibuprofen every 4 to 6 hours as needed for pain or fever, but should not take more than 6 doses in 24 hours. Children and infants may usually be given nonprescription ibuprofen every 6 to 8 hours as needed for pain or fever, but should not be given more than 4 doses in 24 hours. Ibuprofen may be taken with food or milk to prevent stomach upset. If you are taking ibuprofen on a regular basis, you should take it at the same time(s) every day. Follow the directions on the package or prescription label carefully, and ask your doctor or pharmacist to explain any part you do not understand. Take ibuprofen exactly as directed. Do not take more or less of it or take it more often than directed by the package label or prescribed by your doctor. Ibuprofen comes alone and in combination with other medications. Some of these combination products are available by prescription only, and some of these combination products are available without a prescription and are used to treat cough and cold symptoms and other conditions. If your doctor has prescribed a medication that contains ibuprofen, you should be careful not to take any nonprescription medications that also contain ibuprofen. Swallow the tablet whole; do not chew or crush it. If you are selecting a product to treat cough or cold symptoms, ask your doctor or pharmacist for advice on which product is best for you. Check nonprescription product labels carefully before using two or more products at the same time. These products may contain the same active ingredient(s) and taking them together could cause you to receive an overdose. This is especially important if you will be giving cough and cold medications to a child. Nonprescription cough and cold combination products, including products that contain ibuprofen, can cause serious side effects or death in young children. Do not give these products to children younger than 4 years of age. If you give these products to children 4 to 11 years of age, use caution and follow the package directions carefully. If you are giving ibuprofen or a combination product that contains ibuprofen to a child, read the package label carefully to be sure that it is the right product for a child of that age. Do not give ibuprofen products that are made for adults to children. Before you give an ibuprofen product to a child, check the package label to find out how much medication the child should receive. Give the dose that matches the child's age on the chart. Ask the child's doctor if you don't know how much medication to give the child. Shake the suspension and drops well before each use to mix the medication evenly. Use the measuring cup provided to measure each dose of the suspension, and use the dosing device provided to measure each dose of the drops. Stop taking nonprescription ibuprofen and call your doctor if your symptoms get worse, you develop new or unexpected symptoms, the part of your body that was painful becomes red or swollen, your pain lasts for more than 10 days, or your fever lasts more than 3 days. Stop giving nonprescription ibuprofen to your child and call your child's doctor if your child does not start to feel better during the first 24 hours of treatment. Also stop giving nonprescription ibuprofen to your child and call your child's doctor if your child develops new symptoms, including redness or swelling on the painful part of his body, or if your child's pain or fever get worse or lasts longer than 3 days. Do not give nonprescription ibuprofen to a child who has a sore throat that is severe or does not go away, or that comes along with fever, headache, nausea, or vomiting. Call the child's doctor right away, because these symptoms may be signs of a more serious condition. Other uses for this medicine Ibuprofen is also sometimes used to treat ankylosing spondylitis (arthritis that mainly affects the spine), gouty arthritis (joint pain caused by a build-up of certain substances in the joints), and psoriatic arthritis (arthritis that occurs with a long-lasting skin disease that causes scaling and swelling). Talk to your doctor about the risks of using this drug for your condition. This medication is sometimes prescribed for other uses; ask your doctor or pharmacist for more information. What special precautions should I follow? Before taking ibuprofen, tell your doctor and pharmacist if you are allergic to ibuprofen, aspirin or other NSAIDs such as ketoprofen and naproxen (Aleve, Naprosyn), any other medications, or any of the inactive ingredients in the type of ibuprofen you plan to take. Ask your pharmacist or check the label on the package for a list of the inactive ingredients. tell your doctor and pharmacist what prescription and nonprescription medications, vitamins, nutritional supplements, and herbal products you are taking or plan to take.Your doctor may need to change the doses of your medications or monitor you more carefully for side effects. do not take nonprescription ibuprofen with any other medication for pain unless your doctor tells you that you should. tell your doctor if you have or have ever had any of the conditions mentioned in the IMPORTANT WARNING section or asthma, especially if you also have frequent stuffed or runny nose or nasal polyps (swelling of the inside of the nose); heart failure; swelling of the hands, arms, feet, ankles, or lower legs; lupus (a condition in which the body attacks many of its own tissues and organs, often including the skin, joints, blood, and kidneys); or liver or kidney disease. If you are giving ibuprofen to a child, tell the child's doctor if the child has not been drinking fluids or has lost a large amount of fluid from repeated vomiting or diarrhea. tell your doctor if you are pregnant, plan to become pregnant; or are breast-feeding. Ibuprofen may harm the fetus and cause problems with delivery if it is taken around 20 weeks or later during pregnancy. Do not take ibuprofen around or after 20 weeks of pregnancy, unless you are told to do so by your doctor. If you become pregnant while taking ibuprofen, call your doctor. if you are having surgery, including dental surgery, tell the doctor or dentist that you are taking ibuprofen. talk to your doctor about the risks and benefits of taking ibuprofen if you are 75 years of age or older. Do not take this medication for a longer period of time or at a higher dose than recommended on the product label or by your doctor. if you have phenylketonuria (PKU, an inherited condition in which a special diet must be followed to prevent damage to your brain that can cause severe intellectual disability), read the package label carefully before taking nonprescription ibuprofen. Some types of nonprescription ibuprofen may be sweetened with aspartame, a source of phenylalanine. What special dietary instructions should I follow? Unless your doctor tells you otherwise, continue your normal diet. What should I do if I forget a dose? If you are taking ibuprofen on a regular basis, take the missed dose as soon as you remember it. However, if it is almost time for the next dose, skip the missed dose and continue your regular dosing schedule. Do not take a double dose to make up for a missed one. What side effects can this medication cause? Ibuprofen may cause side effects. Tell your doctor if any of these symptoms are severe or do not go away: constipation gas or bloating dizziness nervousness ringing in the ears Some side effects can be serious. If you experience any of the following symptoms, or those mentioned in the IMPORTANT WARNING section, call your doctor immediately. Do not take any more ibuprofen until you speak to your doctor. unexplained weight gain shortness of breath or difficulty breathing swelling of the abdomen, feet, ankles, or lower legs diarrhea fever, rash, blisters, or peeling skin itching hives swelling of the eyes, face, throat, arms, or hands difficulty breathing or swallowing hoarseness excessive tiredness pain in the upper right part of the stomach nausea loss of appetite yellowing of the skin or eyes flu-like symptoms pale skin fast heartbeat cloudy, discolored, or bloody urine back pain difficult or painful urination blurred vision, changes in color vision, or other vision problems headache, stiff neck, fever Ibuprofen may cause other side effects. Call your doctor if you have any unusual problems while taking this medication. If you experience a serious side effect, you or your doctor may send a report to the Food and Drug Administration's (FDA) MedWatch Adverse Event Reporting program online ( http://www.fda.gov/Safety/MedWatch ) or by phone (1-800-332-1088). What should I know about storage and disposal of this medication? Keep this medication in the container it came in, tightly closed, and out of reach of children. Store it at room temperature and away from excess heat and moisture (not in the bathroom). It is important to keep all medication out of sight and reach of children as many containers (such as weekly pill minders and those for eye drops, creams, patches, and inhalers) are not child-resistant and young children can open them easily. To protect young children from poisoning, always lock safety caps and immediately place the medication in a safe location – one that is up and away and out of their sight and reach. http://www.upandaway.org Unneeded medications should be disposed of in special ways to ensure that pets, children, and other people cannot consume them. However, you should not flush this medication down the toilet. Instead, the best way to dispose of your medication is through a medicine take-back program. Talk to your pharmacist or contact your local garbage/recycling department to learn about take-back programs in your community. See the FDA's Safe Disposal of Medicines website ( http://goo.gl/c4Rm4p ) for more information if you do not have access to a take-back program. In case of emergency/overdose In case of overdose, call the poison control helpline at 1-800-222-1222. Information is also available online at https://www.poisonhelp.org/help . If the victim has collapsed, had a seizure, has trouble breathing, or can't be awakened, immediately call emergency services at 911. Symptoms of overdosage may include: extreme tiredness drowsiness stomach pain nausea vomiting slow or difficult breathing dizziness fast eye movements that you cannot control blue color around the lips, mouth, and nose What other information should I know? If you are taking prescription ibuprofen, do not let anyone else take your medication. Ask your pharmacist any questions you have about refilling your prescription. It is important for you to keep a written list of all of the prescription and nonprescription (over-the-counter) medicines you are taking, as well as any products such as vitamins, minerals, or other dietary supplements. You should bring this list with you each time you visit a doctor or if you are admitted to a hospital. It is also important information to carry with you in case of emergencies. Brand names Addaprin ® ¶ Advil ® Cedaprin ® ¶ I-Prin ® ¶ Midol ® Motrin ® Motrin ® IB NeoProfen ® ¶ Profen IB ® ¶ Proprinal ® ¶ Ultraprin ® ¶

[ Dextroamphetamine and Amphetamine pronounced as (dex troe am fet' a meen) (am fet' a meen) To use the sharing features on this page, please enable JavaScript. Why is this medication prescribed? How should this medicine be used? Other uses for this medicine What special precautions should I follow? What special dietary instructions should I follow? What should I do if I forget a dose? What side effects can this medication cause? What should I know about storage and disposal of this medication? In case of emergency/overdose What other information should I know? Brand names IMPORTANT WARNING: The combination of dextroamphetamine and amphetamine can be habit-forming. Do not take a larger dose, take it more often, or take it for a longer time than prescribed by your doctor. If you take too much dextroamphetamine and amphetamine, you may continue to feel a need to take large amounts of the medication, and you may experience unusual changes in your behavior. You or your caregiver should tell your doctor immediately, if you experience any of the following symptoms: fast, pounding, or irregular heartbeat; sweating; dilated pupils; abnormally excited mood; restlessness; irritability; difficulty falling sleeping or staying asleep; hostility; aggression; anxiety; loss of appetite; loss of coordination; uncontrollable movement of a part of the body; flushed skin; vomiting; stomach pain; or thinking about harming or killing oneself or others or planning or trying to do so. Overusing dextroamphetamine and amphetamine may also cause serious heart problems or sudden death. Tell your doctor if you or anyone in your family drinks or has ever drunk large amounts of alcohol, uses or has ever used street drugs, or has overused prescription medications. Your doctor will probably not prescribe dextroamphetamine and amphetamine for you. Do not stop taking dextroamphetamine and amphetamine without talking to your doctor, especially if you have overused the medication. Your doctor will probably decrease your dose gradually and monitor you carefully during this time. You may develop severe depression and extreme tiredness if you suddenly stop taking dextroamphetamine and amphetamine after overusing it. Do not sell, give away, or let anyone else take your medication. Selling or giving away dextroamphetamine and amphetamine may harm others and is against the law. Store dextroamphetamine and amphetamine in a safe place so that no one else can take it accidentally or on purpose. Keep track of how many tablets or capsules are left so you will know if any are missing. Your doctor or pharmacist will give you the manufacturer's patient information sheet (Medication Guide) when you begin treatment with dextroamphetamine and amphetamine and each time you get more medication. Read the information carefully and ask your doctor or pharmacist if you have any questions. You can also visit the Food and Drug Administration (FDA) website ( http://www.fda.gov/Drugs/DrugSafety/ucm085729.htm ) or the manufacturer's website to obtain the Medication Guide. Why is this medication prescribed? The combination of dextroamphetamine and amphetamine (Adderall, Adderall XR, Mydayis) is used as part of a treatment program to control symptoms of attention deficit hyperactivity disorder (ADHD; more difficulty focusing, controlling actions, and remaining still or quiet than other people who are the same age). Adderall is used to treat ADHD in adults and children 3 years of age and older. Adderall XR is used to treat ADHD in adults and children 6 years of age and older. Mydayis is used to treat ADHD in adults and children 13 years of age and older. Dextroamphetamine and amphetamine (Adderall) is also used to treat narcolepsy (a sleep disorder that causes excessive daytime sleepiness and sudden attacks of sleep) in adults and children 12 years of age and older. The combination of dextroamphetamine and amphetamine is in a class of medications called central nervous system stimulants. It works by changing the amounts of certain natural substances in the brain. How should this medicine be used? The combination of dextroamphetamine and amphetamine comes as an immediate-relase tablet (Adderall) and as an extended-release (long-acting) capsule (Adderall XR, Mydayis) to take by mouth. The immediate-release tablet (Adderall) is usually taken 2 to 3 times daily, 4 to 6 hours apart, with or without food. The extended-release capsule (Adderall XR) is usually taken upon awakening with or without food. The extended-release capsule (Mydayis) is usually taken upon awakening and must be taken consistently either with or without food. Dextroamphetamine and amphetamine combination should not be taken in the late afternoon or evening because it may cause difficulty falling asleep or staying asleep. Follow the directions on your prescription label carefully, and ask your doctor or pharmacist to explain any part you do not understand. Take dextroamphetamine and amphetamine exactly as directed. Swallow the extended-release capsules whole; do not chew or crush them. If you are unable to swallow the extended-release capsule, you may open the capsule and sprinkle the entire contents on a teaspoonful of applesauce. Swallow this mixture right away without chewing. Do not store the applesauce and medication mixture for future use, and do not divide the contents of one capsule into more than one dose. Your doctor will probably start you on a low dose of dextroamphetamine and amphetamine and increase your dose gradually, not more often than once every week. Your doctor may tell you to stop taking dextroamphetamine and amphetamine from time to time to see if the medication is still needed. Follow these directions carefully. The medication in each product is absorbed differently by the body, so one dextroamphetamine and amphetamine product cannot be substituted for another product. If you are switching from one product to another, your doctor will prescribe a dose that is best for you. Other uses for this medicine The combination of dextroamphetamine and amphetamine should not be used to treat excessive tiredness that is not caused by narcolepsy. This medication may be prescribed for other conditions; ask your doctor or pharmacist for more information. What special precautions should I follow? Before taking dextroamphetamine and amphetamine, tell your doctor and pharmacist if you are allergic to amphetamine, dextroamphetamine, other stimulant medications such as benzphetamine, lisdexamfetamine (Vyvanse), or methamphetamine (Desoxyn); any other medications, or any of the ingredients in dextroamphetamine and amphetamine preparations. Ask your pharmacist for a list of the ingredients. tell your doctor if you are taking the following medications or have stopped taking them in the past 14 days: monoamine oxidase (MAO) inhibitors including isocarboxazid (Marplan), linezolid (Zyvox), methylene blue, phenelzine (Nardil), selegiline (Eldepryl, Emsam, Zelapar), or tranylcypromine (Parnate). If you stop taking dextroamphetamine and amphetamine, you should wait at least 14 days before you start to take an MAO inhibitor. tell your doctor and pharmacist what other prescription and nonprescription medications, vitamins, and herbal products you are taking. Be sure to mention any of the following: acetazolamide (Diamox); alpha blockers such as alfuzosin (Uroxatral), doxazosin (Cardura), prazosin (Minipress), tamsulosin (Flomax, in Jalyn), and terazosin; antacids and other medications for heartburn or ulcers such as cimetidine (Tagamet), esomeprazole (Nexium), omeprazole (Prilosec, in Zegerid), and pantoprazole (Protonix); antidepressants ('mood elevators'); antihistamines (medications for colds and allergies); ascorbic acid (Vitamin C); beta blockers such as atenolol (Tenormin), labetalol (Trandate), metoprolol (Lopressor, Toprol XL), nadolol (Corgard), and propranolol (Inderal, Innopran); buspirone; chlorpromazine; fentanyl (Actiq, Duragesic, Subsys, others); guanethidine (no longer available in U.S.); lithium (Lithobid); meperidine (Demerol); methenamine (Hiprex, Urex); medications for migraine headaches such as almotriptan (Axert), eletriptan (Relpax), frovatriptan (Frova), naratriptan (Amerge), rizatriptan (Maxalt), sumatriptan (Imitrex, in Treximet), and zolmitriptan (Zomig); quinidine (in Nuedexta); reserpine; ritonavir (Norvir, in Kaletra); certain medications for seizures such as ethosuximide (Zarontin), phenobarbital, and phenytoin (Dilantin, Phenytek); selective serotonin-reuptake inhibitors such as citalopram (Celexa), escitalopram (Lexapro), fluoxetine (Prozac, Sarafem, in Symbyax), fluvoxamine (Luvox), paroxetine (Brisdelle, Prozac, Pexeva), and sertraline (Zoloft); serotonin and norepinephrine reuptake inhibitors such as desvenlafaxine (Khedezla, Pristiq), duloxetine (Cymbalta), milnacipran (Savella), and venlafaxine (Effexor); sodium bicarbonate (Arm and Hammer Baking Soda, Soda Mint); sodium phosphate; certain thiazide diuretics ('water pills'); tramadol (Conzip, in Ultracet); or tricyclic antidepressants ('mood elevators') such as desipramine (Norpramin) or protriptyline (Vivactil). Your doctor may need to change the doses of your medications or monitor you carefully for side effects. tell your doctor what herbal products you are taking, especially St. John's wort and tryptophan or nutritional supplements including glutamic acid (L-glutamine). tell your doctor if you have glaucoma (increased pressure in the eye that may cause vision loss), hyperthyroidism (condition in which there is too much thyroid hormone in the body), or feelings of anxiety, tension, or agitation. Your doctor will probably tell you not to take dextroamphetamine and amphetamine. tell your doctor if anyone in your family has or has ever had an irregular heartbeat or has died suddenly. Also tell your doctor if you have recently had a heart attack and if you have or have ever had a heart defect, high blood pressure, an irregular heartbeat, hardening of the arteries, heart or blood vessel disease, or other heart problems. Your doctor will examine you to see if your heart and blood vessels are healthy. Your doctor will probably tell you not to take dextroamphetamine and amphetamine if you have a heart condition or if there is a high risk that you may develop a heart condition. tell your doctor if you or anyone in your family has or has ever had depression, bipolar disorder (mood that changes from depressed to abnormally excited), or mania (frenzied, abnormally excited mood), motor tics (repeated uncontrollable movements), verbal tics (repetition of sounds or words that is hard to control), or Tourette's syndrome (a condition characterized by the need to perform repeated motions or to repeat sounds or words), or has thought about or attempted suicide. Also tell your doctor if you have or have ever had mental illness, seizures, an abnormal electroencephalogram (EEG; a test that measures electrical activity in the brain), or liver or kidney disease. tell your doctor if you are pregnant, plan to become pregnant, or are breastfeeding. If you become pregnant while taking dextroamphetamine and amphetamine, call your doctor. Do not breastfeed while taking dextroamphetamine and amphetamine. talk to your doctor about the risks and benefits of taking dextroamphetamine and amphetamine if you are 65 years of age or older. Older adults should not usually take dextroamphetamine and amphetamine because it is not as safe as other medications that can be used to treat the same condition. you should know that this medication may make it difficult for you to perform activities that require alertness or physical coordination. Do not drive a car or operate machinery until you know how this medication affects you. you should know that dextroamphetamine and amphetamine should be used as part of a total treatment program for ADHD, which may include counseling and special education. Make sure to follow all of your doctor's and/or therapist's instructions. you should know that dextroamphetamine and amphetamine may cause sudden death in children and teenagers, especially children and teenagers who have heart defects or serious heart problems. This medication also may cause sudden death, heart attack, or stroke in adults, especially adults with heart defects or serious heart problems. Call your or your child's doctor right away and get emergency help, if you or your child has any signs of heart problems while taking this medication including: chest pain, shortness of breath, or fainting. What special dietary instructions should I follow? Unless your doctor tells you otherwise, continue your normal diet. What should I do if I forget a dose? If you miss your dose of the extended-release capsule the morning, skip the missed dose and take your next dose at the regular time the next day. Do not take a dose later in the day. Do not take a double dose to make up for a missed one. What side effects can this medication cause? Dextroamphetamine and amphetamine may cause side effects. Tell your doctor if any of these symptoms are severe or do not go away: nervousness headache changes in sex drive or ability painful menstrual cramps dry mouth constipation diarrhea nausea weight loss Some side effects can be serious. If you experience any of the following symptoms or those listed in the IMPORTANT WARNING section, call your doctor immediately or get emergency medical treatment: slow or difficult speech dizziness weakness or numbness of an arm or leg seizures motor or verbal tics teeth grinding depression believing things that are not true feeling unusually suspicious of others hallucinating (seeing things or hearing voices that do not exist) agitation, hallucinations (seeing things or hearing voices that do not exist), fever, sweating, confusion, fast heartbeat, shivering, severe muscle stiffness or twitching, loss of coordination, nausea, vomiting, or diarrhea mania (frenzied or abnormally excited mood) changes in vision or blurred vision paleness or blue color of fingers or toes pain, numbness, burning, or tingling in the hands or feet unexplained wounds appearing on fingers or toes blistering or peeling skin rash hives itching swelling of the eyes, face, tongue, or throat difficulty breathing or swallowing hoarseness Dextroamphetamine and amphetamine may cause sudden death in children and teenagers, especially children or teenagers with heart defects or serious heart problems. This medication also may cause sudden death, heart attack or stroke in adults, especially adults with heart defects or serious heart problems. Call your doctor right away if you or your child has any signs of heart problems while taking this medication including: chest pain, shortness of breath, or fainting. Talk to your doctor about the risks of taking this medication. Dextroamphetamine and amphetamine may slow children's growth or weight gain. Your child's doctor will watch his or her growth carefully. Talk to your child's doctor if you have concerns about your child's growth or weight gain while he or she is taking this medication. Talk to your child's doctor about the risks of giving dextroamphetamine and amphetamine to your child. If you experience a serious side effect, you or your doctor may send a report to the Food and Drug Administration's (FDA) MedWatch Adverse Event Reporting program online ( http://www.fda.gov/Safety/MedWatch ) or by phone (1-800-332-1088). What should I know about storage and disposal of this medication? Keep this medication in the container it came in, tightly closed, and out of reach of children. Store it at room temperature, away from light and excess heat and moisture (not in the bathroom). It is important to keep all medication out of sight and reach of children as many containers (such as weekly pill minders and those for eye drops, creams, patches, and inhalers) are not child-resistant and young children can open them easily. To protect young children from poisoning, always lock safety caps and immediately place the medication in a safe location – one that is up and away and out of their sight and reach. http://www.upandaway.org Unneeded medications should be disposed of in special ways to ensure that pets, children, and other people cannot consume them. However, you should not flush this medication down the toilet. Instead, the best way to dispose of your medication is through a medicine take-back program. Talk to your pharmacist or contact your local garbage/recycling department to learn about take-back programs in your community. See the FDA's Safe Disposal of Medicines website ( http://goo.gl/c4Rm4p ) for more information if you do not have access to a take-back program. In case of emergency/overdose In case of overdose, call the poison control helpline at 1-800-222-1222. Information is also available online at https://www.poisonhelp.org/help . If the victim has collapsed, had a seizure, has trouble breathing, or can't be awakened, immediately call emergency services at 911. Symptoms of overdose may include the following: restlessness confusion aggressive behavior feelings of panic hallucination (seeing things or hearing voices that do not exist) fast breathing uncontrollable shaking of a part of the body fever dark red or cola-colored urine muscle weakness or aching tirednessor weakness depression fast or irregular heartbeat fainting dizziness blurred vision upset stomach vomiting diarrhea seizures coma (loss of consciousness for a period of time) What other information should I know? Keep all your appointments with your doctor and the laboratory. Your doctor may order certain lab tests to check your body's response to dextroamphetamine and amphetamine. Before having any laboratory test, tell your doctor and the laboratory personnel that you are taking dextroamphetamine and amphetamine. This prescription is not refillable. Be sure to schedule appointments with your doctor on a regular basis so that you do not run out of medication. It is important for you to keep a written list of all of the prescription and nonprescription (over-the-counter) medicines you are taking, as well as any products such as vitamins, minerals, or other dietary supplements. You should bring this list with you each time you visit a doctor or if you are admitted to a hospital. It is also important information to carry with you in case of emergencies. Brand names Mydayis ® (as a combination product containing Amphetamine, Dextroamphetamine)

[ Dextroamphetamine and Amphetamine pronounced as (dex troe am fet' a meen) (am fet' a meen) To use the sharing features on this page, please enable JavaScript. Why is this medication prescribed? How should this medicine be used? Other uses for this medicine What special precautions should I follow? What special dietary instructions should I follow? What should I do if I forget a dose? What side effects can this medication cause? What should I know about storage and disposal of this medication? In case of emergency/overdose What other information should I know? Brand names IMPORTANT WARNING: The combination of dextroamphetamine and amphetamine can be habit-forming. Do not take a larger dose, take it more often, or take it for a longer time than prescribed by your doctor. If you take too much dextroamphetamine and amphetamine, you may continue to feel a need to take large amounts of the medication, and you may experience unusual changes in your behavior. You or your caregiver should tell your doctor immediately, if you experience any of the following symptoms: fast, pounding, or irregular heartbeat; sweating; dilated pupils; abnormally excited mood; restlessness; irritability; difficulty falling sleeping or staying asleep; hostility; aggression; anxiety; loss of appetite; loss of coordination; uncontrollable movement of a part of the body; flushed skin; vomiting; stomach pain; or thinking about harming or killing oneself or others or planning or trying to do so. Overusing dextroamphetamine and amphetamine may also cause serious heart problems or sudden death. Tell your doctor if you or anyone in your family drinks or has ever drunk large amounts of alcohol, uses or has ever used street drugs, or has overused prescription medications. Your doctor will probably not prescribe dextroamphetamine and amphetamine for you. Do not stop taking dextroamphetamine and amphetamine without talking to your doctor, especially if you have overused the medication. Your doctor will probably decrease your dose gradually and monitor you carefully during this time. You may develop severe depression and extreme tiredness if you suddenly stop taking dextroamphetamine and amphetamine after overusing it. Do not sell, give away, or let anyone else take your medication. Selling or giving away dextroamphetamine and amphetamine may harm others and is against the law. Store dextroamphetamine and amphetamine in a safe place so that no one else can take it accidentally or on purpose. Keep track of how many tablets or capsules are left so you will know if any are missing. Your doctor or pharmacist will give you the manufacturer's patient information sheet (Medication Guide) when you begin treatment with dextroamphetamine and amphetamine and each time you get more medication. Read the information carefully and ask your doctor or pharmacist if you have any questions. You can also visit the Food and Drug Administration (FDA) website ( http://www.fda.gov/Drugs/DrugSafety/ucm085729.htm ) or the manufacturer's website to obtain the Medication Guide. Why is this medication prescribed? The combination of dextroamphetamine and amphetamine (Adderall, Adderall XR, Mydayis) is used as part of a treatment program to control symptoms of attention deficit hyperactivity disorder (ADHD; more difficulty focusing, controlling actions, and remaining still or quiet than other people who are the same age). Adderall is used to treat ADHD in adults and children 3 years of age and older. Adderall XR is used to treat ADHD in adults and children 6 years of age and older. Mydayis is used to treat ADHD in adults and children 13 years of age and older. Dextroamphetamine and amphetamine (Adderall) is also used to treat narcolepsy (a sleep disorder that causes excessive daytime sleepiness and sudden attacks of sleep) in adults and children 12 years of age and older. The combination of dextroamphetamine and amphetamine is in a class of medications called central nervous system stimulants. It works by changing the amounts of certain natural substances in the brain. How should this medicine be used? The combination of dextroamphetamine and amphetamine comes as an immediate-relase tablet (Adderall) and as an extended-release (long-acting) capsule (Adderall XR, Mydayis) to take by mouth. The immediate-release tablet (Adderall) is usually taken 2 to 3 times daily, 4 to 6 hours apart, with or without food. The extended-release capsule (Adderall XR) is usually taken upon awakening with or without food. The extended-release capsule (Mydayis) is usually taken upon awakening and must be taken consistently either with or without food. Dextroamphetamine and amphetamine combination should not be taken in the late afternoon or evening because it may cause difficulty falling asleep or staying asleep. Follow the directions on your prescription label carefully, and ask your doctor or pharmacist to explain any part you do not understand. Take dextroamphetamine and amphetamine exactly as directed. Swallow the extended-release capsules whole; do not chew or crush them. If you are unable to swallow the extended-release capsule, you may open the capsule and sprinkle the entire contents on a teaspoonful of applesauce. Swallow this mixture right away without chewing. Do not store the applesauce and medication mixture for future use, and do not divide the contents of one capsule into more than one dose. Your doctor will probably start you on a low dose of dextroamphetamine and amphetamine and increase your dose gradually, not more often than once every week. Your doctor may tell you to stop taking dextroamphetamine and amphetamine from time to time to see if the medication is still needed. Follow these directions carefully. The medication in each product is absorbed differently by the body, so one dextroamphetamine and amphetamine product cannot be substituted for another product. If you are switching from one product to another, your doctor will prescribe a dose that is best for you. Other uses for this medicine The combination of dextroamphetamine and amphetamine should not be used to treat excessive tiredness that is not caused by narcolepsy. This medication may be prescribed for other conditions; ask your doctor or pharmacist for more information. What special precautions should I follow? Before taking dextroamphetamine and amphetamine, tell your doctor and pharmacist if you are allergic to amphetamine, dextroamphetamine, other stimulant medications such as benzphetamine, lisdexamfetamine (Vyvanse), or methamphetamine (Desoxyn); any other medications, or any of the ingredients in dextroamphetamine and amphetamine preparations. Ask your pharmacist for a list of the ingredients. tell your doctor if you are taking the following medications or have stopped taking them in the past 14 days: monoamine oxidase (MAO) inhibitors including isocarboxazid (Marplan), linezolid (Zyvox), methylene blue, phenelzine (Nardil), selegiline (Eldepryl, Emsam, Zelapar), or tranylcypromine (Parnate). If you stop taking dextroamphetamine and amphetamine, you should wait at least 14 days before you start to take an MAO inhibitor. tell your doctor and pharmacist what other prescription and nonprescription medications, vitamins, and herbal products you are taking. Be sure to mention any of the following: acetazolamide (Diamox); alpha blockers such as alfuzosin (Uroxatral), doxazosin (Cardura), prazosin (Minipress), tamsulosin (Flomax, in Jalyn), and terazosin; antacids and other medications for heartburn or ulcers such as cimetidine (Tagamet), esomeprazole (Nexium), omeprazole (Prilosec, in Zegerid), and pantoprazole (Protonix); antidepressants ('mood elevators'); antihistamines (medications for colds and allergies); ascorbic acid (Vitamin C); beta blockers such as atenolol (Tenormin), labetalol (Trandate), metoprolol (Lopressor, Toprol XL), nadolol (Corgard), and propranolol (Inderal, Innopran); buspirone; chlorpromazine; fentanyl (Actiq, Duragesic, Subsys, others); guanethidine (no longer available in U.S.); lithium (Lithobid); meperidine (Demerol); methenamine (Hiprex, Urex); medications for migraine headaches such as almotriptan (Axert), eletriptan (Relpax), frovatriptan (Frova), naratriptan (Amerge), rizatriptan (Maxalt), sumatriptan (Imitrex, in Treximet), and zolmitriptan (Zomig); quinidine (in Nuedexta); reserpine; ritonavir (Norvir, in Kaletra); certain medications for seizures such as ethosuximide (Zarontin), phenobarbital, and phenytoin (Dilantin, Phenytek); selective serotonin-reuptake inhibitors such as citalopram (Celexa), escitalopram (Lexapro), fluoxetine (Prozac, Sarafem, in Symbyax), fluvoxamine (Luvox), paroxetine (Brisdelle, Prozac, Pexeva), and sertraline (Zoloft); serotonin and norepinephrine reuptake inhibitors such as desvenlafaxine (Khedezla, Pristiq), duloxetine (Cymbalta), milnacipran (Savella), and venlafaxine (Effexor); sodium bicarbonate (Arm and Hammer Baking Soda, Soda Mint); sodium phosphate; certain thiazide diuretics ('water pills'); tramadol (Conzip, in Ultracet); or tricyclic antidepressants ('mood elevators') such as desipramine (Norpramin) or protriptyline (Vivactil). Your doctor may need to change the doses of your medications or monitor you carefully for side effects. tell your doctor what herbal products you are taking, especially St. John's wort and tryptophan or nutritional supplements including glutamic acid (L-glutamine). tell your doctor if you have glaucoma (increased pressure in the eye that may cause vision loss), hyperthyroidism (condition in which there is too much thyroid hormone in the body), or feelings of anxiety, tension, or agitation. Your doctor will probably tell you not to take dextroamphetamine and amphetamine. tell your doctor if anyone in your family has or has ever had an irregular heartbeat or has died suddenly. Also tell your doctor if you have recently had a heart attack and if you have or have ever had a heart defect, high blood pressure, an irregular heartbeat, hardening of the arteries, heart or blood vessel disease, or other heart problems. Your doctor will examine you to see if your heart and blood vessels are healthy. Your doctor will probably tell you not to take dextroamphetamine and amphetamine if you have a heart condition or if there is a high risk that you may develop a heart condition. tell your doctor if you or anyone in your family has or has ever had depression, bipolar disorder (mood that changes from depressed to abnormally excited), or mania (frenzied, abnormally excited mood), motor tics (repeated uncontrollable movements), verbal tics (repetition of sounds or words that is hard to control), or Tourette's syndrome (a condition characterized by the need to perform repeated motions or to repeat sounds or words), or has thought about or attempted suicide. Also tell your doctor if you have or have ever had mental illness, seizures, an abnormal electroencephalogram (EEG; a test that measures electrical activity in the brain), or liver or kidney disease. tell your doctor if you are pregnant, plan to become pregnant, or are breastfeeding. If you become pregnant while taking dextroamphetamine and amphetamine, call your doctor. Do not breastfeed while taking dextroamphetamine and amphetamine. talk to your doctor about the risks and benefits of taking dextroamphetamine and amphetamine if you are 65 years of age or older. Older adults should not usually take dextroamphetamine and amphetamine because it is not as safe as other medications that can be used to treat the same condition. you should know that this medication may make it difficult for you to perform activities that require alertness or physical coordination. Do not drive a car or operate machinery until you know how this medication affects you. you should know that dextroamphetamine and amphetamine should be used as part of a total treatment program for ADHD, which may include counseling and special education. Make sure to follow all of your doctor's and/or therapist's instructions. you should know that dextroamphetamine and amphetamine may cause sudden death in children and teenagers, especially children and teenagers who have heart defects or serious heart problems. This medication also may cause sudden death, heart attack, or stroke in adults, especially adults with heart defects or serious heart problems. Call your or your child's doctor right away and get emergency help, if you or your child has any signs of heart problems while taking this medication including: chest pain, shortness of breath, or fainting. What special dietary instructions should I follow? Unless your doctor tells you otherwise, continue your normal diet. What should I do if I forget a dose? If you miss your dose of the extended-release capsule the morning, skip the missed dose and take your next dose at the regular time the next day. Do not take a dose later in the day. Do not take a double dose to make up for a missed one. What side effects can this medication cause? Dextroamphetamine and amphetamine may cause side effects. Tell your doctor if any of these symptoms are severe or do not go away: nervousness headache changes in sex drive or ability painful menstrual cramps dry mouth constipation diarrhea nausea weight loss Some side effects can be serious. If you experience any of the following symptoms or those listed in the IMPORTANT WARNING section, call your doctor immediately or get emergency medical treatment: slow or difficult speech dizziness weakness or numbness of an arm or leg seizures motor or verbal tics teeth grinding depression believing things that are not true feeling unusually suspicious of others hallucinating (seeing things or hearing voices that do not exist) agitation, hallucinations (seeing things or hearing voices that do not exist), fever, sweating, confusion, fast heartbeat, shivering, severe muscle stiffness or twitching, loss of coordination, nausea, vomiting, or diarrhea mania (frenzied or abnormally excited mood) changes in vision or blurred vision paleness or blue color of fingers or toes pain, numbness, burning, or tingling in the hands or feet unexplained wounds appearing on fingers or toes blistering or peeling skin rash hives itching swelling of the eyes, face, tongue, or throat difficulty breathing or swallowing hoarseness Dextroamphetamine and amphetamine may cause sudden death in children and teenagers, especially children or teenagers with heart defects or serious heart problems. This medication also may cause sudden death, heart attack or stroke in adults, especially adults with heart defects or serious heart problems. Call your doctor right away if you or your child has any signs of heart problems while taking this medication including: chest pain, shortness of breath, or fainting. Talk to your doctor about the risks of taking this medication. Dextroamphetamine and amphetamine may slow children's growth or weight gain. Your child's doctor will watch his or her growth carefully. Talk to your child's doctor if you have concerns about your child's growth or weight gain while he or she is taking this medication. Talk to your child's doctor about the risks of giving dextroamphetamine and amphetamine to your child. If you experience a serious side effect, you or your doctor may send a report to the Food and Drug Administration's (FDA) MedWatch Adverse Event Reporting program online ( http://www.fda.gov/Safety/MedWatch ) or by phone (1-800-332-1088). What should I know about storage and disposal of this medication? Keep this medication in the container it came in, tightly closed, and out of reach of children. Store it at room temperature, away from light and excess heat and moisture (not in the bathroom). It is important to keep all medication out of sight and reach of children as many containers (such as weekly pill minders and those for eye drops, creams, patches, and inhalers) are not child-resistant and young children can open them easily. To protect young children from poisoning, always lock safety caps and immediately place the medication in a safe location – one that is up and away and out of their sight and reach. http://www.upandaway.org Unneeded medications should be disposed of in special ways to ensure that pets, children, and other people cannot consume them. However, you should not flush this medication down the toilet. Instead, the best way to dispose of your medication is through a medicine take-back program. Talk to your pharmacist or contact your local garbage/recycling department to learn about take-back programs in your community. See the FDA's Safe Disposal of Medicines website ( http://goo.gl/c4Rm4p ) for more information if you do not have access to a take-back program. In case of emergency/overdose In case of overdose, call the poison control helpline at 1-800-222-1222. Information is also available online at https://www.poisonhelp.org/help . If the victim has collapsed, had a seizure, has trouble breathing, or can't be awakened, immediately call emergency services at 911. Symptoms of overdose may include the following: restlessness confusion aggressive behavior feelings of panic hallucination (seeing things or hearing voices that do not exist) fast breathing uncontrollable shaking of a part of the body fever dark red or cola-colored urine muscle weakness or aching tirednessor weakness depression fast or irregular heartbeat fainting dizziness blurred vision upset stomach vomiting diarrhea seizures coma (loss of consciousness for a period of time) What other information should I know? Keep all your appointments with your doctor and the laboratory. Your doctor may order certain lab tests to check your body's response to dextroamphetamine and amphetamine. Before having any laboratory test, tell your doctor and the laboratory personnel that you are taking dextroamphetamine and amphetamine. This prescription is not refillable. Be sure to schedule appointments with your doctor on a regular basis so that you do not run out of medication. It is important for you to keep a written list of all of the prescription and nonprescription (over-the-counter) medicines you are taking, as well as any products such as vitamins, minerals, or other dietary supplements. You should bring this list with you each time you visit a doctor or if you are admitted to a hospital. It is also important information to carry with you in case of emergencies. Brand names Mydayis ® (as a combination product containing Amphetamine, Dextroamphetamine)





































[ Guaifenesin pronounced as (gwye fen' e sin)  Guaifenesin is used to relieve chest congestion. Guaifenesin may help control symptoms but does not treat the cause of symptoms or speed recovery. Guaifenesin is in a class of medications called expectorants. It works by thinning the mucus in the air passages to make it easier to cough up the mucus and clear the airways. How should this medicine be used? Guaifenesin comes as a tablet, a capsule, an extended-release (long-acting) tablet, dissolving granules, and a syrup (liquid) to take by mouth. The tablets, capsules, dissolving granules, and syrup are usually taken with or without food every 4 hours as needed. The extended-release tablet is usually taken with or without food every 12 hours. Follow the directions on the package or on your prescription label carefully, and ask your doctor or pharmacist to explain any part you do not understand. Take guaifenesin exactly as directed. Do not take more or less of it or take it more often than prescribed by your doctor. Guaifenesin comes alone and in combination with antihistamines, cough suppressants, and decongestants. Ask your doctor or pharmacist for advice on which product is best for your symptoms. Check nonprescription cough and cold product labels carefully before using two or more products at the same time. These products may contain the same active ingredient(s) and taking them together could cause you to receive an overdose. This is especially important if you will be giving cough and cold medications to a child. Nonprescription cough and cold combination products, including products that contain guaifenesin, can cause serious side effects or death in young children. Do not give these products to children younger than 4 years of age. If you give these products to children 4 to 11 years of age, use caution and follow the package directions carefully. If you are giving guaifenesin or a combination product that contains guaifenesin to a child, read the package label carefully to be sure that it is the right product for a child of that age. Do not give guaifenesin products that are made for adults to children. Before you give a guaifenesin product to a child, check the package label to find out how much medication the child should receive. Give the dose that matches the child's age on the chart. Ask the child's doctor if you don't know how much medication to give the child. If you are taking the liquid, do not use a household spoon to measure your dose. Use the measuring spoon or cup that came with the medication or use a spoon made especially for measuring medication. Swallow the extended-release tablets whole with a full glass of water. Do not break, crush, or chew them. If you are taking the dissolving granules, empty the entire contents of the packet onto your tongue and swallow. If your symptoms do not improve within 7 days or if you also have a high fever, a rash, or a headache that does not go away, call your doctor. Other uses for this medicine This medication is sometimes prescribed for other uses; ask your doctor or pharmacist for more information. What special precautions should I follow? Before taking guaifenesin, tell your doctor and pharmacist if you are allergic to guaifenesin, any other medications, or any of the ingredients in the guaifenesin product you plan to take. Check the package label for a list of the ingredients. tell your doctor and pharmacist what prescription and nonprescription medications, vitamins, nutritional supplements, and herbal products you are taking or plan to take. tell your doctor if you smoke and if you have or have ever had a cough that occurs with a large amount of phlegm (mucus) or if you have or have ever had a breathing problem such as asthma, emphysema, or chronic bronchitis. If you will be taking the dissolving granules, tell your doctor if you are on a low magnesium diet or if you have kidney disease. tell your doctor if you are pregnant, plan to become pregnant, or are breast-feeding. If you become pregnant while taking guaifenesin, call your doctor. if you have phenylketonuria (PKU, a inherited condition in which a special diet must be followed to prevent damage to your brain that can cause severe intellectual disability), you should know that the dissolving granules may be sweetened with aspartame, a source of phenylalanine. What special dietary instructions should I follow? Drink plenty of fluids while you are taking this medication. Unless your doctor tells you otherwise, continue your normal diet. What should I do if I forget a dose? Guaifenesin is usually taken as needed. If your doctor has told you to take guaifenesin regularly, take the missed dose as soon as you remember it. However, if it is almost time for the next dose, skip the missed dose and continue your regular dosing schedule. Do not take a double dose to make up for a missed one. What side effects can this medication cause? Guaifenesin may cause side effects. Tell your doctor if any of these symptoms are severe or do not go away: headache nausea vomiting Guaifenesin may cause other side effects. Call your doctor if you have any unusual problems while you are taking this medication. If you experience a serious side effect, you or your doctor may send a report to the Food and Drug Administration's (FDA) MedWatch Adverse Event Reporting program online ( http://www.fda.gov/Safety/MedWatch ) or by phone (1-800-332-1088). What should I know about storage and disposal of this medication? Keep this medication in the container it came in, tightly closed, and out of reach of children. Store it at room temperature and away from excess heat and moisture (not in the bathroom). Unneeded medications should be disposed of in special ways to ensure that pets, children, and other people cannot consume them. However, you should not flush this medication down the toilet. Instead, the best way to dispose of your medication is through a medicine take-back program. Talk to your pharmacist or contact your local garbage/recycling department to learn about take-back programs in your community. See the FDA's Safe Disposal of Medicines website ( http://goo.gl/c4Rm4p ) for more information if you do not have access to a take-back program. It is important to keep all medication out of sight and reach of children as many containers (such as weekly pill minders and those for eye drops, creams, patches, and inhalers) are not child-resistant and young children can open them easily. To protect young children from poisoning, always lock safety caps and immediately place the medication in a safe location – one that is up and away and out of their sight and reach. http://www.upandaway.org In case of emergency/overdose In case of overdose, call the poison control helpline at 1-800-222-1222. Information is also available online at https://www.poisonhelp.org/help . If the victim has collapsed, had a seizure, has trouble breathing, or can't be awakened, immediately call emergency services at 911. What other information should I know? Ask your pharmacist any questions you have about guaifenesin. It is important for you to keep a written list of all of the prescription and nonprescription (over-the-counter) medicines you are taking, as well as any products such as vitamins, minerals, or other dietary supplements. You should bring this list with you each time you visit a doctor or if you are admitted to a hospital. It is also important information to carry with you in case of emergencies. Brand names Adult Tussin ® Air Power ® Bronchoril ® Chest Congestion ® Childrens Mucinex ® Childrens Mucus Relief ® Cough Out ® Diabetic Siltussin DAS-Na ® Diabetic Tussin Expectorant ® Diabetic Tussin Mucus Relief ® Equaline Tussin ® Equate Tussin ® Good Neighbor Pharmacy Tussin ® Good Sense Tussin ® Guiatuss ® Iophen NR ® Kids-EEZE ® Leader Adult Tussin ® Leader Mucus Relief ® Liqufruta ® Little Remedies Little Colds Mucus Relief Expectorant Melt Aways ® MucaPlex ® Mucinex ® Mucinex for Kids ® Mucus Relief ® Mucus Relief Chest ® ORGAN-I NR ® Premier Value Chest Congestion Relief ® Q-Tussin ® Refenesen ® Chest Congestion Relief Robitussin ® Chest Congestion Scot-Tussin ® Expectorant SF Cough SelectHealth Tussin DM ® Siltussin DAS ® Siltussin SA ® Smart Sense Tussin ® Sunmark Tussin ® Topcare Mucus Relief ® Topcare Tussin ® Tussin ® Tussin Chest ® Tussin Chest Congestion ® Tussin Original ® Up and Up Childrens Mucus Relief ® Vicks ® DayQuil ® Wal Tussin ®

[ Guaifenesin pronounced as (gwye fen' e sin)  Guaifenesin is used to relieve chest congestion. Guaifenesin may help control symptoms but does not treat the cause of symptoms or speed recovery. Guaifenesin is in a class of medications called expectorants. It works by thinning the mucus in the air passages to make it easier to cough up the mucus and clear the airways. How should this medicine be used? Guaifenesin comes as a tablet, a capsule, an extended-release (long-acting) tablet, dissolving granules, and a syrup (liquid) to take by mouth. The tablets, capsules, dissolving granules, and syrup are usually taken with or without food every 4 hours as needed. The extended-release tablet is usually taken with or without food every 12 hours. Follow the directions on the package or on your prescription label carefully, and ask your doctor or pharmacist to explain any part you do not understand. Take guaifenesin exactly as directed. Do not take more or less of it or take it more often than prescribed by your doctor. Guaifenesin comes alone and in combination with antihistamines, cough suppressants, and decongestants. Ask your doctor or pharmacist for advice on which product is best for your symptoms. Check nonprescription cough and cold product labels carefully before using two or more products at the same time. These products may contain the same active ingredient(s) and taking them together could cause you to receive an overdose. This is especially important if you will be giving cough and cold medications to a child. Nonprescription cough and cold combination products, including products that contain guaifenesin, can cause serious side effects or death in young children. Do not give these products to children younger than 4 years of age. If you give these products to children 4 to 11 years of age, use caution and follow the package directions carefully. If you are giving guaifenesin or a combination product that contains guaifenesin to a child, read the package label carefully to be sure that it is the right product for a child of that age. Do not give guaifenesin products that are made for adults to children. Before you give a guaifenesin product to a child, check the package label to find out how much medication the child should receive. Give the dose that matches the child's age on the chart. Ask the child's doctor if you don't know how much medication to give the child. If you are taking the liquid, do not use a household spoon to measure your dose. Use the measuring spoon or cup that came with the medication or use a spoon made especially for measuring medication. Swallow the extended-release tablets whole with a full glass of water. Do not break, crush, or chew them. If you are taking the dissolving granules, empty the entire contents of the packet onto your tongue and swallow. If your symptoms do not improve within 7 days or if you also have a high fever, a rash, or a headache that does not go away, call your doctor. Other uses for this medicine This medication is sometimes prescribed for other uses; ask your doctor or pharmacist for more information. What special precautions should I follow? Before taking guaifenesin, tell your doctor and pharmacist if you are allergic to guaifenesin, any other medications, or any of the ingredients in the guaifenesin product you plan to take. Check the package label for a list of the ingredients. tell your doctor and pharmacist what prescription and nonprescription medications, vitamins, nutritional supplements, and herbal products you are taking or plan to take. tell your doctor if you smoke and if you have or have ever had a cough that occurs with a large amount of phlegm (mucus) or if you have or have ever had a breathing problem such as asthma, emphysema, or chronic bronchitis. If you will be taking the dissolving granules, tell your doctor if you are on a low magnesium diet or if you have kidney disease. tell your doctor if you are pregnant, plan to become pregnant, or are breast-feeding. If you become pregnant while taking guaifenesin, call your doctor. if you have phenylketonuria (PKU, a inherited condition in which a special diet must be followed to prevent damage to your brain that can cause severe intellectual disability), you should know that the dissolving granules may be sweetened with aspartame, a source of phenylalanine. What special dietary instructions should I follow? Drink plenty of fluids while you are taking this medication. Unless your doctor tells you otherwise, continue your normal diet. What should I do if I forget a dose? Guaifenesin is usually taken as needed. If your doctor has told you to take guaifenesin regularly, take the missed dose as soon as you remember it. However, if it is almost time for the next dose, skip the missed dose and continue your regular dosing schedule. Do not take a double dose to make up for a missed one. What side effects can this medication cause? Guaifenesin may cause side effects. Tell your doctor if any of these symptoms are severe or do not go away: headache nausea vomiting Guaifenesin may cause other side effects. Call your doctor if you have any unusual problems while you are taking this medication. If you experience a serious side effect, you or your doctor may send a report to the Food and Drug Administration's (FDA) MedWatch Adverse Event Reporting program online ( http://www.fda.gov/Safety/MedWatch ) or by phone (1-800-332-1088). What should I know about storage and disposal of this medication? Keep this medication in the container it came in, tightly closed, and out of reach of children. Store it at room temperature and away from excess heat and moisture (not in the bathroom). Unneeded medications should be disposed of in special ways to ensure that pets, children, and other people cannot consume them. However, you should not flush this medication down the toilet. Instead, the best way to dispose of your medication is through a medicine take-back program. Talk to your pharmacist or contact your local garbage/recycling department to learn about take-back programs in your community. See the FDA's Safe Disposal of Medicines website ( http://goo.gl/c4Rm4p ) for more information if you do not have access to a take-back program. It is important to keep all medication out of sight and reach of children as many containers (such as weekly pill minders and those for eye drops, creams, patches, and inhalers) are not child-resistant and young children can open them easily. To protect young children from poisoning, always lock safety caps and immediately place the medication in a safe location – one that is up and away and out of their sight and reach. http://www.upandaway.org In case of emergency/overdose In case of overdose, call the poison control helpline at 1-800-222-1222. Information is also available online at https://www.poisonhelp.org/help . If the victim has collapsed, had a seizure, has trouble breathing, or can't be awakened, immediately call emergency services at 911. What other information should I know? Ask your pharmacist any questions you have about guaifenesin. It is important for you to keep a written list of all of the prescription and nonprescription (over-the-counter) medicines you are taking, as well as any products such as vitamins, minerals, or other dietary supplements. You should bring this list with you each time you visit a doctor or if you are admitted to a hospital. It is also important information to carry with you in case of emergencies. Brand names Adult Tussin ® Air Power ® Bronchoril ® Chest Congestion ® Childrens Mucinex ® Childrens Mucus Relief ® Cough Out ® Diabetic Siltussin DAS-Na ® Diabetic Tussin Expectorant ® Diabetic Tussin Mucus Relief ® Equaline Tussin ® Equate Tussin ® Good Neighbor Pharmacy Tussin ® Good Sense Tussin ® Guiatuss ® Iophen NR ® Kids-EEZE ® Leader Adult Tussin ® Leader Mucus Relief ® Liqufruta ® Little Remedies Little Colds Mucus Relief Expectorant Melt Aways ® MucaPlex ® Mucinex ® Mucinex for Kids ® Mucus Relief ® Mucus Relief Chest ® ORGAN-I NR ® Premier Value Chest Congestion Relief ® Q-Tussin ® Refenesen ® Chest Congestion Relief Robitussin ® Chest Congestion Scot-Tussin ® Expectorant SF Cough SelectHealth Tussin DM ® Siltussin DAS ® Siltussin SA ® Smart Sense Tussin ® Sunmark Tussin ® Topcare Mucus Relief ® Topcare Tussin ® Tussin ® Tussin Chest ® Tussin Chest Congestion ® Tussin Original ® Up and Up Childrens Mucus Relief ® Vicks ® DayQuil ® Wal Tussin ®





[ Fluoride pronounced as (floor' ide) To use the sharing features on this page, please enable JavaScript. Why is this medication prescribed? How should this medicine be used? What special precautions should I follow? What special dietary instructions should I follow? What should I do if I forget a dose? What side effects can this medication cause? What should I know about storage and disposal of this medication? In case of emergency/overdose What other information should I know? Brand names Why is this medication prescribed? Fluoride is used to prevent tooth decay. It is taken up by teeth and helps to strengthen teeth, resist acid, and block the cavity-forming action of bacteria. Fluoride usually is prescribed for children and adults whose homes have water that is not fluoridated (already has fluoride added). This medication is sometimes prescribed for other uses; ask your doctor or pharmacist for more information. How should this medicine be used? Fluoride comes as a liquid, tablet, and chewable tablet to take by mouth. It usually is taken once daily. Follow the directions on your prescription label carefully, and ask your doctor or pharmacist to explain any part you do not understand. Take fluoride exactly as directed. Do not take more or less of it or take it more often than prescribed by your doctor. The fluoride liquid may be taken straight from the bottle or mixed with cereal, fruit juice, or other foods. Use a dropper or an oral syringe to measure out your dose. Tablets may be dissolved in the mouth, chewed, or added to drinking water or fruit juice. Tablets also may be added to water for use in infant formulas or other food. Fluoride helps to strengthen teeth and prevent cavities; it is not a substitute for brushing or flossing. What special precautions should I follow? Before taking fluoride, tell your doctor and pharmacist if you are allergic to fluoride, tartrazine (a yellow dye in some processed foods and drugs), or any other drugs. tell your doctor and pharmacist what prescription and nonprescription medications you are taking, especially vitamins. Do not take calcium, magnesium, or iron supplements while taking fluoride without checking with your doctor. tell your doctor if you are pregnant, plan to become pregnant, or are breast-feeding. If you become pregnant while taking fluoride, call your doctor. tell your doctor if you are on a low-sodium or sodium-free diet. What special dietary instructions should I follow? Do not eat or drink dairy products 1 hour before or 1 hour after taking fluoride. What should I do if I forget a dose? Take the missed dose as soon as you remember it. However, if it is almost time for the next dose, skip the missed dose and continue your regular dosing schedule. Do not take a double dose to make up for a missed one. What side effects can this medication cause? Fluoride may cause side effects. Tell your doctor if this symptom is severe or does not go away: staining of teeth If you experience any of the following symptoms, call your doctor immediately: unusual increase in saliva salty or soapy taste stomach pain upset stomach vomiting diarrhea rash weakness tremor seizures If you experience a serious side effect, you or your doctor may send a report to the Food and Drug Administration's (FDA) MedWatch Adverse Event Reporting program online ( http://www.fda.gov/Safety/MedWatch ) or by phone (1-800-332-1088). What should I know about storage and disposal of this medication? Keep this medication in the container it came in, tightly closed, and out of reach of children. Store it at room temperature and away from excess heat and moisture (not in the bathroom). It is important to keep all medication out of sight and reach of children as many containers (such as weekly pill minders and those for eye drops, creams, patches, and inhalers) are not child-resistant and young children can open them easily. To protect young children from poisoning, always lock safety caps and immediately place the medication in a safe location – one that is up and away and out of their sight and reach. http://www.upandaway.org Unneeded medications should be disposed of in special ways to ensure that pets, children, and other people cannot consume them. However, you should not flush this medication down the toilet. Instead, the best way to dispose of your medication is through a medicine take-back program. Talk to your pharmacist or contact your local garbage/recycling department to learn about take-back programs in your community. See the FDA's Safe Disposal of Medicines website ( http://goo.gl/c4Rm4p ) for more information if you do not have access to a take-back program. In case of emergency/overdose In case of overdose, call the poison control helpline at 1-800-222-1222. Information is also available online at https://www.poisonhelp.org/help . If the victim has collapsed, had a seizure, has trouble breathing, or can't be awakened, immediately call emergency services at 911. What other information should I know? Keep all appointments with your doctor. Do not let anyone else take your medication. Ask your pharmacist any questions you have about refilling your prescription. It is important for you to keep a written list of all of the prescription and nonprescription (over-the-counter) medicines you are taking, as well as any products such as vitamins, minerals, or other dietary supplements. You should bring this list with you each time you visit a doctor or if you are admitted to a hospital. It is also important information to carry with you in case of emergencies. Brand names ACT ® Advance White ® Aim ® AmerFresh ® AquaFresh ® Charm-Tex ® Clinpro 5000 ® Close Up ® Colgate ® Control Rx ® Crest ® Darby ® Dawn Mist ® Denti-Care ® Epiflur ® Fluor-a-Day ® FluoriSHIELD ® Gelato ® Glister ® Kolorz ® Listerine ® Ludent ® Mentadent ® Opalescence ® Oral Defense ® Oral-B ® Ora-Line ® Ortho Guard ® Pepsodent ® Peroxi-Care ® Pro-Den Rx ® Simply White ® Vortex ® Whole Care ® Xylishield ® Zooby ®

[ Ibuprofen pronounced as (eye byoo' proe fen) To use the sharing features on this page, please enable JavaScript. Why is this medication prescribed? How should this medicine be used? Other uses for this medicine What special precautions should I follow? What special dietary instructions should I follow? What should I do if I forget a dose? What side effects can this medication cause? What should I know about storage and disposal of this medication? In case of emergency/overdose What other information should I know? Brand names IMPORTANT WARNING: People who take nonsteroidal anti-inflammatory drugs (NSAIDs) (other than aspirin) such as ibuprofen may have a higher risk of having a heart attack or a stroke than people who do not take these medications. These events may happen without warning and may cause death. These problems may develop at any time during treatment, but the risk may be higher for people who take NSAIDs for a long time or at higher doses. Do not take an NSAID such as ibuprofen if you have recently had a heart attack, unless directed to do so by your doctor. Tell your doctor if you or anyone in your family has or has ever had heart disease, a heart attack, or a stroke; if you smoke; and if you have or have ever had high cholesterol, high blood pressure, or diabetes. Get emergency medical help right away if you experience any of the following symptoms: chest pain, shortness of breath, weakness in one part or side of the body, or slurred speech. If you will be undergoing a coronary artery bypass graft (CABG; a type of heart surgery), you should not take ibuprofen right before or right after the surgery. NSAIDs such as ibuprofen may cause ulcers, bleeding, or holes in the esophagus (tube between the mouth and stomach), stomach, or intestine. These problems may develop at any time during treatment, may happen without warning symptoms, and may cause death. The risk may be higher for people who take NSAIDs for a long time, are older in age, have poor health, who smoke, or who drink large amounts of alcohol while taking ibuprofen. Tell your doctor if you take any of the following medications: anticoagulants ('blood thinners'); aspirin; other NSAIDs such as naproxen (Aleve, Naprosyn); oral steroids such as dexamethasone, methylprednisolone (Medrol), and prednisone (Rayos);selective serotonin reuptake inhibitors (SSRIs) such as citalopram (Celexa), fluoxetine (Prozac, Sarafem, Selfemra, in Symbyax), fluvoxamine (Luvox), paroxetine (Brisdelle, Paxil, Pexeva), and sertraline (Zoloft); or serotonin norepinephrine reuptake inhibitors (SNRIs) such as desvenlafaxine (Khedezla, Pristiq), duloxetine (Cymbalta), and venlafaxine (Effexor XR). Also tell your doctor if you have or have ever had ulcers, bleeding in your stomach or intestines, or other bleeding disorders. If you experience any of the following symptoms, stop taking ibuprofen and call your doctor: stomach pain, heartburn, vomit that is bloody or looks like coffee grounds, blood in the stool, or black and tarry stools. Keep all appointments with your doctor and the laboratory. Your doctor will monitor your symptoms carefully and will probably order certain tests to check your body's response to ibuprofen. Be sure to tell your doctor how you are feeling so that your doctor can prescribe the right amount of medication to treat your condition with the lowest risk of serious side effects. Your doctor or pharmacist will give you the manufacturer's patient information sheet (Medication Guide) when you begin treatment with prescription ibuprofen and each time you refill your prescription. Read the information carefully and ask your doctor or pharmacist if you have any questions. You can also visit the Food and Drug Administration (FDA) website ( http://www.fda.gov/Drugs/DrugSafety/ucm085729.htm ) or the manufacturer's website to obtain the Medication Guide. Why is this medication prescribed? Prescription ibuprofen is used to relieve pain, tenderness, swelling, and stiffness caused by osteoarthritis (arthritis caused by a breakdown of the lining of the joints) and rheumatoid arthritis (arthritis caused by swelling of the lining of the joints). It is also used to relieve mild to moderate pain, including menstrual pain (pain that happens before or during a menstrual period). Nonprescription ibuprofen is used to reduce fever and to relieve minor aches and pain from headaches, muscle aches, arthritis, menstrual periods, the common cold, toothaches, and backaches. Ibuprofen is in a class of medications called NSAIDs. It works by stopping the body's production of a substance that causes pain, fever, and inflammation. How should this medicine be used? Prescription ibuprofen comes as a tablet and suspension (liquid) to take by mouth. It is usually taken three or four times a day for arthritis or every 4 to 6 hours as needed for pain. Nonprescription ibuprofen comes as a tablet, chewable tablet, capsule, gel capsule, suspension (liquid), and drops (concentrated liquid). Adults and children older than 12 years of age may usually take nonprescription ibuprofen every 4 to 6 hours as needed for pain or fever, but should not take more than 6 doses in 24 hours. Children and infants may usually be given nonprescription ibuprofen every 6 to 8 hours as needed for pain or fever, but should not be given more than 4 doses in 24 hours. Ibuprofen may be taken with food or milk to prevent stomach upset. If you are taking ibuprofen on a regular basis, you should take it at the same time(s) every day. Follow the directions on the package or prescription label carefully, and ask your doctor or pharmacist to explain any part you do not understand. Take ibuprofen exactly as directed. Do not take more or less of it or take it more often than directed by the package label or prescribed by your doctor. Ibuprofen comes alone and in combination with other medications. Some of these combination products are available by prescription only, and some of these combination products are available without a prescription and are used to treat cough and cold symptoms and other conditions. If your doctor has prescribed a medication that contains ibuprofen, you should be careful not to take any nonprescription medications that also contain ibuprofen. Swallow the tablet whole; do not chew or crush it. If you are selecting a product to treat cough or cold symptoms, ask your doctor or pharmacist for advice on which product is best for you. Check nonprescription product labels carefully before using two or more products at the same time. These products may contain the same active ingredient(s) and taking them together could cause you to receive an overdose. This is especially important if you will be giving cough and cold medications to a child. Nonprescription cough and cold combination products, including products that contain ibuprofen, can cause serious side effects or death in young children. Do not give these products to children younger than 4 years of age. If you give these products to children 4 to 11 years of age, use caution and follow the package directions carefully. If you are giving ibuprofen or a combination product that contains ibuprofen to a child, read the package label carefully to be sure that it is the right product for a child of that age. Do not give ibuprofen products that are made for adults to children. Before you give an ibuprofen product to a child, check the package label to find out how much medication the child should receive. Give the dose that matches the child's age on the chart. Ask the child's doctor if you don't know how much medication to give the child. Shake the suspension and drops well before each use to mix the medication evenly. Use the measuring cup provided to measure each dose of the suspension, and use the dosing device provided to measure each dose of the drops. Stop taking nonprescription ibuprofen and call your doctor if your symptoms get worse, you develop new or unexpected symptoms, the part of your body that was painful becomes red or swollen, your pain lasts for more than 10 days, or your fever lasts more than 3 days. Stop giving nonprescription ibuprofen to your child and call your child's doctor if your child does not start to feel better during the first 24 hours of treatment. Also stop giving nonprescription ibuprofen to your child and call your child's doctor if your child develops new symptoms, including redness or swelling on the painful part of his body, or if your child's pain or fever get worse or lasts longer than 3 days. Do not give nonprescription ibuprofen to a child who has a sore throat that is severe or does not go away, or that comes along with fever, headache, nausea, or vomiting. Call the child's doctor right away, because these symptoms may be signs of a more serious condition. Other uses for this medicine Ibuprofen is also sometimes used to treat ankylosing spondylitis (arthritis that mainly affects the spine), gouty arthritis (joint pain caused by a build-up of certain substances in the joints), and psoriatic arthritis (arthritis that occurs with a long-lasting skin disease that causes scaling and swelling). Talk to your doctor about the risks of using this drug for your condition. This medication is sometimes prescribed for other uses; ask your doctor or pharmacist for more information. What special precautions should I follow? Before taking ibuprofen, tell your doctor and pharmacist if you are allergic to ibuprofen, aspirin or other NSAIDs such as ketoprofen and naproxen (Aleve, Naprosyn), any other medications, or any of the inactive ingredients in the type of ibuprofen you plan to take. Ask your pharmacist or check the label on the package for a list of the inactive ingredients. tell your doctor and pharmacist what prescription and nonprescription medications, vitamins, nutritional supplements, and herbal products you are taking or plan to take.Your doctor may need to change the doses of your medications or monitor you more carefully for side effects. do not take nonprescription ibuprofen with any other medication for pain unless your doctor tells you that you should. tell your doctor if you have or have ever had any of the conditions mentioned in the IMPORTANT WARNING section or asthma, especially if you also have frequent stuffed or runny nose or nasal polyps (swelling of the inside of the nose); heart failure; swelling of the hands, arms, feet, ankles, or lower legs; lupus (a condition in which the body attacks many of its own tissues and organs, often including the skin, joints, blood, and kidneys); or liver or kidney disease. If you are giving ibuprofen to a child, tell the child's doctor if the child has not been drinking fluids or has lost a large amount of fluid from repeated vomiting or diarrhea. tell your doctor if you are pregnant, plan to become pregnant; or are breast-feeding. Ibuprofen may harm the fetus and cause problems with delivery if it is taken around 20 weeks or later during pregnancy. Do not take ibuprofen around or after 20 weeks of pregnancy, unless you are told to do so by your doctor. If you become pregnant while taking ibuprofen, call your doctor. if you are having surgery, including dental surgery, tell the doctor or dentist that you are taking ibuprofen. talk to your doctor about the risks and benefits of taking ibuprofen if you are 75 years of age or older. Do not take this medication for a longer period of time or at a higher dose than recommended on the product label or by your doctor. if you have phenylketonuria (PKU, an inherited condition in which a special diet must be followed to prevent damage to your brain that can cause severe intellectual disability), read the package label carefully before taking nonprescription ibuprofen. Some types of nonprescription ibuprofen may be sweetened with aspartame, a source of phenylalanine. What special dietary instructions should I follow? Unless your doctor tells you otherwise, continue your normal diet. What should I do if I forget a dose? If you are taking ibuprofen on a regular basis, take the missed dose as soon as you remember it. However, if it is almost time for the next dose, skip the missed dose and continue your regular dosing schedule. Do not take a double dose to make up for a missed one. What side effects can this medication cause? Ibuprofen may cause side effects. Tell your doctor if any of these symptoms are severe or do not go away: constipation gas or bloating dizziness nervousness ringing in the ears Some side effects can be serious. If you experience any of the following symptoms, or those mentioned in the IMPORTANT WARNING section, call your doctor immediately. Do not take any more ibuprofen until you speak to your doctor. unexplained weight gain shortness of breath or difficulty breathing swelling of the abdomen, feet, ankles, or lower legs diarrhea fever, rash, blisters, or peeling skin itching hives swelling of the eyes, face, throat, arms, or hands difficulty breathing or swallowing hoarseness excessive tiredness pain in the upper right part of the stomach nausea loss of appetite yellowing of the skin or eyes flu-like symptoms pale skin fast heartbeat cloudy, discolored, or bloody urine back pain difficult or painful urination blurred vision, changes in color vision, or other vision problems headache, stiff neck, fever Ibuprofen may cause other side effects. Call your doctor if you have any unusual problems while taking this medication. If you experience a serious side effect, you or your doctor may send a report to the Food and Drug Administration's (FDA) MedWatch Adverse Event Reporting program online ( http://www.fda.gov/Safety/MedWatch ) or by phone (1-800-332-1088). What should I know about storage and disposal of this medication? Keep this medication in the container it came in, tightly closed, and out of reach of children. Store it at room temperature and away from excess heat and moisture (not in the bathroom). It is important to keep all medication out of sight and reach of children as many containers (such as weekly pill minders and those for eye drops, creams, patches, and inhalers) are not child-resistant and young children can open them easily. To protect young children from poisoning, always lock safety caps and immediately place the medication in a safe location – one that is up and away and out of their sight and reach. http://www.upandaway.org Unneeded medications should be disposed of in special ways to ensure that pets, children, and other people cannot consume them. However, you should not flush this medication down the toilet. Instead, the best way to dispose of your medication is through a medicine take-back program. Talk to your pharmacist or contact your local garbage/recycling department to learn about take-back programs in your community. See the FDA's Safe Disposal of Medicines website ( http://goo.gl/c4Rm4p ) for more information if you do not have access to a take-back program. In case of emergency/overdose In case of overdose, call the poison control helpline at 1-800-222-1222. Information is also available online at https://www.poisonhelp.org/help . If the victim has collapsed, had a seizure, has trouble breathing, or can't be awakened, immediately call emergency services at 911. Symptoms of overdosage may include: extreme tiredness drowsiness stomach pain nausea vomiting slow or difficult breathing dizziness fast eye movements that you cannot control blue color around the lips, mouth, and nose What other information should I know? If you are taking prescription ibuprofen, do not let anyone else take your medication. Ask your pharmacist any questions you have about refilling your prescription. It is important for you to keep a written list of all of the prescription and nonprescription (over-the-counter) medicines you are taking, as well as any products such as vitamins, minerals, or other dietary supplements. You should bring this list with you each time you visit a doctor or if you are admitted to a hospital. It is also important information to carry with you in case of emergencies. Brand names Addaprin ® ¶ Advil ® Cedaprin ® ¶ I-Prin ® ¶ Midol ® Motrin ® Motrin ® IB NeoProfen ® ¶ Profen IB ® ¶ Proprinal ® ¶ Ultraprin ® ¶

[ Pseudoephedrine pronounced as (soo doe e fed' rin)  Pseudoephedrine is used to relieve nasal congestion caused by colds, allergies, and hay fever. It is also used to temporarily relieve sinus congestion and pressure. Pseudoephedrine will relieve symptoms but will not treat the cause of the symptoms or speed recovery. Pseudoephedrine is in a class of medications called nasal decongestants. It works by causing narrowing of the blood vessels in the nasal passages. How should this medicine be used? Pseudoephedrine comes as a regular tablet, a 12-hour extended-release (long-acting) tablet, a 24-hour extended-release tablet, and a solution (liquid) to be taken by mouth. The regular tablets and liquid are usually taken every 4 to 6 hours. The 12-hour extended-release tablets usually are taken every 12 hours, and you should not take more than two doses in a 24-hour period. The 24-hour extended-release tablets usually are taken once a day, and you should not take more than one dose in a 24-hour period. To help prevent trouble sleeping, take the last dose of the day several hours before bedtime. Follow the directions on the package label or on your prescription label carefully, and ask your doctor or pharmacist to explain any part you do not understand. Take pseudoephedrine exactly as directed. Do not take more or less of it or take it more often than prescribed by your doctor or directed on the label. Pseudoephedrine comes alone and in combination with other medications. Ask your doctor or pharmacist for advice on which product is best for your symptoms. Check nonprescription cough and cold product labels carefully before using 2 or more products at the same time. These products may contain the same active ingredient(s) and taking them together could cause you to receive an overdose. This is especially important if you will be giving cough and cold medications to a child. Nonprescription cough and cold combination products, including products that contain pseudoephedrine, can cause serious side effects or death in young children. Do not give nonprescription pseudoephedrine products to children younger than 4 years of age. If you give these products to children 4-11 years of age, use caution and follow the package directions carefully. Do not give pseudoephedrine extended-release tablets to children younger than 12 years of age. If you are giving pseudoephedrine or a combination product that contains pseudoephedrine to a child, read the package label carefully to be sure that it is the right product for a child of that age. Do not give pseudoephedrine products that are made for adults to children. Before you give a pseudoephedrine product to a child, check the package label to find out how much medication the child should receive. Give the dose that matches the child's age on the chart. Ask the child's doctor if you don't know how much medication to give the child. If you are taking the liquid, do not use a household spoon to measure your dose. Use the measuring spoon or cup that came with the medication or use a spoon made especially for measuring medication. If your symptoms do not get better within 7 days or if you have a fever, stop taking pseudoephedrine and call your doctor. Swallow the extended-release tablets whole; do not break, crush, or chew them. Other uses for this medicine This medication is also sometimes used to prevent ear pain and blockage caused by pressure changes during air travel or underwater diving. Talk to your doctor or pharmacist for more information. This medication is sometimes prescribed for other uses; ask your doctor or pharmacist for more information. What special precautions should I follow? Before taking pseudoephedrine, tell your doctor and pharmacist if you are allergic to pseudoephedrine, any other medications, or any of the inactive ingredients in the pseudoephedrine product you plan to take. Check the package label for a list of the ingredients. do not take pseudoephedrine if you are taking a monoamine oxidase (MAO) inhibitor such as isocarboxazid (Marplan), phenelzine (Nardil), selegiline (Eldepryl, Emsam, Zelapar), and tranylcypromine (Parnate), or if you have stopped taking one of these medications within the past 2 weeks. tell your doctor and pharmacist what prescription and nonprescription medications, vitamins, nutritional supplements, and herbal products you are taking or plan to take. Be sure to mention medications for diet or appetite control, asthma, colds, or high blood pressure. tell your doctor if you have or have ever had high blood pressure, glaucoma (a condition in which increased pressure in the eye can lead to gradual loss of vision), diabetes, difficulty urinating (due to an enlarged prostate gland), or thyroid or heart disease. If you plan to take the 24-hour extended-release tablets, tell your doctor if you have had a narrowing or blockage of your digestive system. tell your doctor if you are pregnant, plan to become pregnant, or are breast-feeding. If you become pregnant while taking pseudoephedrine, call your doctor. if you are having surgery, including dental surgery, tell the doctor or dentist that you are taking pseudoephedrine. What special dietary instructions should I follow? Foods and drinks that contain large amounts of caffeine can make the side effects of pseudoephedrine worse. What should I do if I forget a dose? This medication is usually taken as needed. If your doctor has told you to take pseudoephedrine regularly, take the missed dose as soon as you remember it. However, if it is almost time for the next dose, skip the missed dose and continue your regular dosing schedule. Do not take a double dose to make up for a missed one. What side effects can this medication cause? Pseudoephedrine may cause side effects. Tell your doctor if any of these symptoms are severe or do not go away: restlessness nausea vomiting weakness headache Some side effects can be serious. If you experience any of the following symptoms, call your doctor immediately: nervousness dizziness difficulty sleeping stomach pain difficulty breathing fast, pounding, or irregular heartbeat Pseudoephedrine may cause other side effects. Call your doctor if you have any unusual problems while you are taking this medication. If you experience a serious side effect, you or your doctor may send a report to the Food and Drug Administration's (FDA) MedWatch Adverse Event Reporting program online ( http://www.fda.gov/Safety/MedWatch ) or by phone (1-800-332-1088). What should I know about storage and disposal of this medication? Keep this medication in the container it came in, tightly closed, and out of reach of children. Store it at room temperature and away from excess heat and moisture (not in the bathroom). Unneeded medications should be disposed of in special ways to ensure that pets, children, and other people cannot consume them. However, you should not flush this medication down the toilet. Instead, the best way to dispose of your medication is through a medicine take-back program. Talk to your pharmacist or contact your local garbage/recycling department to learn about take-back programs in your community. See the FDA's Safe Disposal of Medicines website ( http://goo.gl/c4Rm4p ) for more information if you do not have access to a take-back program. It is important to keep all medication out of sight and reach of children as many containers (such as weekly pill minders and those for eye drops, creams, patches, and inhalers) are not child-resistant and young children can open them easily. To protect young children from poisoning, always lock safety caps and immediately place the medication in a safe location – one that is up and away and out of their sight and reach. http://www.upandaway.org In case of emergency/overdose In case of overdose, call the poison control helpline at 1-800-222-1222. Information is also available online at https://www.poisonhelp.org/help . If the victim has collapsed, had a seizure, has trouble breathing, or can't be awakened, immediately call emergency services at 911. What other information should I know? If you are taking the 24-hour extended-release tablets, you may notice something that looks like a tablet in your stool. This is just the empty tablet shell, and this does not mean that you did not get your complete dose of medication. Ask your pharmacist any questions you have about pseudoephedrine. It is important for you to keep a written list of all of the prescription and nonprescription (over-the-counter) medicines you are taking, as well as any products such as vitamins, minerals, or other dietary supplements. You should bring this list with you each time you visit a doctor or if you are admitted to a hospital. It is also important information to carry with you in case of emergencies. Brand names Afrinol ® ¶ Cenafed ® ¶ Children's Sudafed Nasal Decongestant ® Congestaclear ® ¶ Efidac ® ¶ Myfedrine ® ¶ Pseudocot ® ¶ Ridafed ® ¶ Silfedrine ® Sudafed 12/24 Hour ® Sudafed Congestion ® Sudodrin ® ¶ SudoGest ® Sudrine ® ¶ Superfed ® ¶ Suphedrin ® Allegra-D® (as a combination product containing Fexofenadine, Pseudoephedrine)

[ Pseudoephedrine pronounced as (soo doe e fed' rin)  Pseudoephedrine is used to relieve nasal congestion caused by colds, allergies, and hay fever. It is also used to temporarily relieve sinus congestion and pressure. Pseudoephedrine will relieve symptoms but will not treat the cause of the symptoms or speed recovery. Pseudoephedrine is in a class of medications called nasal decongestants. It works by causing narrowing of the blood vessels in the nasal passages. How should this medicine be used? Pseudoephedrine comes as a regular tablet, a 12-hour extended-release (long-acting) tablet, a 24-hour extended-release tablet, and a solution (liquid) to be taken by mouth. The regular tablets and liquid are usually taken every 4 to 6 hours. The 12-hour extended-release tablets usually are taken every 12 hours, and you should not take more than two doses in a 24-hour period. The 24-hour extended-release tablets usually are taken once a day, and you should not take more than one dose in a 24-hour period. To help prevent trouble sleeping, take the last dose of the day several hours before bedtime. Follow the directions on the package label or on your prescription label carefully, and ask your doctor or pharmacist to explain any part you do not understand. Take pseudoephedrine exactly as directed. Do not take more or less of it or take it more often than prescribed by your doctor or directed on the label. Pseudoephedrine comes alone and in combination with other medications. Ask your doctor or pharmacist for advice on which product is best for your symptoms. Check nonprescription cough and cold product labels carefully before using 2 or more products at the same time. These products may contain the same active ingredient(s) and taking them together could cause you to receive an overdose. This is especially important if you will be giving cough and cold medications to a child. Nonprescription cough and cold combination products, including products that contain pseudoephedrine, can cause serious side effects or death in young children. Do not give nonprescription pseudoephedrine products to children younger than 4 years of age. If you give these products to children 4-11 years of age, use caution and follow the package directions carefully. Do not give pseudoephedrine extended-release tablets to children younger than 12 years of age. If you are giving pseudoephedrine or a combination product that contains pseudoephedrine to a child, read the package label carefully to be sure that it is the right product for a child of that age. Do not give pseudoephedrine products that are made for adults to children. Before you give a pseudoephedrine product to a child, check the package label to find out how much medication the child should receive. Give the dose that matches the child's age on the chart. Ask the child's doctor if you don't know how much medication to give the child. If you are taking the liquid, do not use a household spoon to measure your dose. Use the measuring spoon or cup that came with the medication or use a spoon made especially for measuring medication. If your symptoms do not get better within 7 days or if you have a fever, stop taking pseudoephedrine and call your doctor. Swallow the extended-release tablets whole; do not break, crush, or chew them. Other uses for this medicine This medication is also sometimes used to prevent ear pain and blockage caused by pressure changes during air travel or underwater diving. Talk to your doctor or pharmacist for more information. This medication is sometimes prescribed for other uses; ask your doctor or pharmacist for more information. What special precautions should I follow? Before taking pseudoephedrine, tell your doctor and pharmacist if you are allergic to pseudoephedrine, any other medications, or any of the inactive ingredients in the pseudoephedrine product you plan to take. Check the package label for a list of the ingredients. do not take pseudoephedrine if you are taking a monoamine oxidase (MAO) inhibitor such as isocarboxazid (Marplan), phenelzine (Nardil), selegiline (Eldepryl, Emsam, Zelapar), and tranylcypromine (Parnate), or if you have stopped taking one of these medications within the past 2 weeks. tell your doctor and pharmacist what prescription and nonprescription medications, vitamins, nutritional supplements, and herbal products you are taking or plan to take. Be sure to mention medications for diet or appetite control, asthma, colds, or high blood pressure. tell your doctor if you have or have ever had high blood pressure, glaucoma (a condition in which increased pressure in the eye can lead to gradual loss of vision), diabetes, difficulty urinating (due to an enlarged prostate gland), or thyroid or heart disease. If you plan to take the 24-hour extended-release tablets, tell your doctor if you have had a narrowing or blockage of your digestive system. tell your doctor if you are pregnant, plan to become pregnant, or are breast-feeding. If you become pregnant while taking pseudoephedrine, call your doctor. if you are having surgery, including dental surgery, tell the doctor or dentist that you are taking pseudoephedrine. What special dietary instructions should I follow? Foods and drinks that contain large amounts of caffeine can make the side effects of pseudoephedrine worse. What should I do if I forget a dose? This medication is usually taken as needed. If your doctor has told you to take pseudoephedrine regularly, take the missed dose as soon as you remember it. However, if it is almost time for the next dose, skip the missed dose and continue your regular dosing schedule. Do not take a double dose to make up for a missed one. What side effects can this medication cause? Pseudoephedrine may cause side effects. Tell your doctor if any of these symptoms are severe or do not go away: restlessness nausea vomiting weakness headache Some side effects can be serious. If you experience any of the following symptoms, call your doctor immediately: nervousness dizziness difficulty sleeping stomach pain difficulty breathing fast, pounding, or irregular heartbeat Pseudoephedrine may cause other side effects. Call your doctor if you have any unusual problems while you are taking this medication. If you experience a serious side effect, you or your doctor may send a report to the Food and Drug Administration's (FDA) MedWatch Adverse Event Reporting program online ( http://www.fda.gov/Safety/MedWatch ) or by phone (1-800-332-1088). What should I know about storage and disposal of this medication? Keep this medication in the container it came in, tightly closed, and out of reach of children. Store it at room temperature and away from excess heat and moisture (not in the bathroom). Unneeded medications should be disposed of in special ways to ensure that pets, children, and other people cannot consume them. However, you should not flush this medication down the toilet. Instead, the best way to dispose of your medication is through a medicine take-back program. Talk to your pharmacist or contact your local garbage/recycling department to learn about take-back programs in your community. See the FDA's Safe Disposal of Medicines website ( http://goo.gl/c4Rm4p ) for more information if you do not have access to a take-back program. It is important to keep all medication out of sight and reach of children as many containers (such as weekly pill minders and those for eye drops, creams, patches, and inhalers) are not child-resistant and young children can open them easily. To protect young children from poisoning, always lock safety caps and immediately place the medication in a safe location – one that is up and away and out of their sight and reach. http://www.upandaway.org In case of emergency/overdose In case of overdose, call the poison control helpline at 1-800-222-1222. Information is also available online at https://www.poisonhelp.org/help . If the victim has collapsed, had a seizure, has trouble breathing, or can't be awakened, immediately call emergency services at 911. What other information should I know? If you are taking the 24-hour extended-release tablets, you may notice something that looks like a tablet in your stool. This is just the empty tablet shell, and this does not mean that you did not get your complete dose of medication. Ask your pharmacist any questions you have about pseudoephedrine. It is important for you to keep a written list of all of the prescription and nonprescription (over-the-counter) medicines you are taking, as well as any products such as vitamins, minerals, or other dietary supplements. You should bring this list with you each time you visit a doctor or if you are admitted to a hospital. It is also important information to carry with you in case of emergencies. Brand names Afrinol ® ¶ Cenafed ® ¶ Children's Sudafed Nasal Decongestant ® Congestaclear ® ¶ Efidac ® ¶ Myfedrine ® ¶ Pseudocot ® ¶ Ridafed ® ¶ Silfedrine ® Sudafed 12/24 Hour ® Sudafed Congestion ® Sudodrin ® ¶ SudoGest ® Sudrine ® ¶ Superfed ® ¶ Suphedrin ® Allegra-D® (as a combination product containing Fexofenadine, Pseudoephedrine)

[ Phenylephrine pronounced as (fen il ef' rin)  Phenylephrine is used to relieve nasal discomfort caused by colds, allergies, and hay fever. It is also used to relieve sinus congestion and pressure. Phenylephrine will relieve symptoms but will not treat the cause of the symptoms or speed recovery. Phenylephrine is in a class of medications called nasal decongestants. It works by reducing swelling of the blood vessels in the nasal passages. How should this medicine be used? Phenylephrine comes as a tablet, a liquid, or a dissolving strip to take by mouth. It is usually taken every 4 hours as needed. Follow the directions on your prescription label or the package label carefully, and ask your doctor or pharmacist to explain any part you do not understand. Take phenylephrine exactly as directed. Do not take more or less of it or take it more often than prescribed by your doctor or directed on the label. Phenylephrine comes alone and in combination with other medications. Ask your doctor or pharmacist for advice on which product is best for your symptoms. Check nonprescription cough and cold product labels carefully before using two or more products at the same time. These products may contain the same active ingredient(s) and taking them together could cause you to receive an overdose. This is especially important if you will be giving cough and cold medications to a child. Nonprescription cough and cold combination products, including products that contain phenylephrine, can cause serious side effects or death in young children. Do not give these products to children younger than 4 years of age. If you give these products to children 4 to 11 years of age, use caution and follow the package directions carefully. If you are giving phenylephrine or a combination product that contains phenylephrine to a child, read the package label carefully to be sure that it is the right product for a child of that age. Do not give phenylephrine products that are made for adults to children. Before you give a phenylephrine product to a child, check the package label to find out how much medication the child should receive. Give the dose that matches the child's age on the chart. Ask the child's doctor if you don't know how much medication to give the child. If you are taking the liquid, do not use a household spoon to measure your dose. Use the measuring spoon or cup that came with the medication or use a spoon made especially for measuring medication. If your symptoms do not get better within 7 days or if you have a fever, stop taking phenylephrine and call your doctor. If you are taking the dissolving strips, place one strip on your tongue and allow it to dissolve. Other uses for this medicine This medication may be prescribed for other uses; ask your doctor or pharmacist for more information. What special precautions should I follow? Before taking phenylephrine, tell your doctor and pharmacist if you are allergic to phenylephrine, any other medications, or any of the ingredients in phenylephrine preparations. do not take phenylephrine if you are taking a monoamine oxidase (MAO) inhibitor, such as isocarboxazid (Marplan), phenelzine (Nardil), selegiline (Eldepryl, Emsam, Zelapar), and tranylcypromine (Parnate), or if you have stopped taking one of these medications within the past 2 weeks. tell your doctor and pharmacist what other prescription and nonprescription medications, vitamins, nutritional supplements, and herbal products you are taking or plan to take. tell your doctor if you have or have ever had high blood pressure, diabetes, trouble urinating because of an enlarged prostate gland, or thyroid or heart disease. tell your doctor if you are pregnant, plan to become pregnant, or are breast-feeding. If you become pregnant while taking phenylephrine, call your doctor. if you are having surgery, including dental surgery, tell the doctor or dentist that you are taking phenylephrine. if you have phenylketonuria (PKU, an inherited condition in which a special diet must be followed to prevent damage to your brain that can cause severe intellectual disability), you should know that some phenylephrine products may be sweetened with aspartame, a source of phenylalanine. What special dietary instructions should I follow? Unless your doctor tells you otherwise, continue your normal diet. What should I do if I forget a dose? This medication is usually taken as needed. If your doctor has told you to take phenylephrine regularly, take the missed dose as soon as you remember it. However, if it is almost time for the next dose, skip the missed dose and continue your regular dosing schedule. Do not take a double dose to make up for a missed one. What side effects can this medication cause? Phenylephrine may cause side effects. Some side effects can be serious. If you experience any of these symptoms, stop using phenylephrine and call your doctor: nervousness dizziness sleeplessness Phenylephrine may cause other side effects. Call your doctor if you have any unusual problems while taking this medication. If you experience a serious side effect, you or your doctor may send a report to the Food and Drug Administration's (FDA) MedWatch Adverse Event Reporting program online ( http://www.fda.gov/Safety/MedWatch ) or by phone (1-800-332-1088). What should I know about storage and disposal of this medication? Keep this medication in the container it came in, tightly closed, and out of reach of children. Store it at room temperature and away from excess heat and moisture (not in the bathroom). It is important to keep all medication out of sight and reach of children as many containers (such as weekly pill minders and those for eye drops, creams, patches, and inhalers) are not child-resistant and young children can open them easily. To protect young children from poisoning, always lock safety caps and immediately place the medication in a safe location – one that is up and away and out of their sight and reach. http://www.upandaway.org Unneeded medications should be disposed of in special ways to ensure that pets, children, and other people cannot consume them. However, you should not flush this medication down the toilet. Instead, the best way to dispose of your medication is through a medicine take-back program. Talk to your pharmacist or contact your local garbage/recycling department to learn about take-back programs in your community. See the FDA's Safe Disposal of Medicines website ( http://goo.gl/c4Rm4p ) for more information if you do not have access to a take-back program. In case of emergency/overdose In case of overdose, call the poison control helpline at 1-800-222-1222. Information is also available online at https://www.poisonhelp.org/help . If the victim has collapsed, had a seizure, has trouble breathing, or can't be awakened, immediately call emergency services at 911. What other information should I know? Ask your pharmacist any questions you have about phenylephrine. It is important for you to keep a written list of all of the prescription and nonprescription (over-the-counter) medicines you are taking, as well as any products such as vitamins, minerals, or other dietary supplements. You should bring this list with you each time you visit a doctor or if you are admitted to a hospital. It is also important information to carry with you in case of emergencies. Brand names Children's Sudafed PE Nasal Decongestant ® Lusonal ® § PediaCare Children's Decongestant ® Sudafed PE Congestion ® Suphedrin PE ®

[ Ibuprofen pronounced as (eye byoo' proe fen) To use the sharing features on this page, please enable JavaScript. Why is this medication prescribed? How should this medicine be used? Other uses for this medicine What special precautions should I follow? What special dietary instructions should I follow? What should I do if I forget a dose? What side effects can this medication cause? What should I know about storage and disposal of this medication? In case of emergency/overdose What other information should I know? Brand names IMPORTANT WARNING: People who take nonsteroidal anti-inflammatory drugs (NSAIDs) (other than aspirin) such as ibuprofen may have a higher risk of having a heart attack or a stroke than people who do not take these medications. These events may happen without warning and may cause death. These problems may develop at any time during treatment, but the risk may be higher for people who take NSAIDs for a long time or at higher doses. Do not take an NSAID such as ibuprofen if you have recently had a heart attack, unless directed to do so by your doctor. Tell your doctor if you or anyone in your family has or has ever had heart disease, a heart attack, or a stroke; if you smoke; and if you have or have ever had high cholesterol, high blood pressure, or diabetes. Get emergency medical help right away if you experience any of the following symptoms: chest pain, shortness of breath, weakness in one part or side of the body, or slurred speech. If you will be undergoing a coronary artery bypass graft (CABG; a type of heart surgery), you should not take ibuprofen right before or right after the surgery. NSAIDs such as ibuprofen may cause ulcers, bleeding, or holes in the esophagus (tube between the mouth and stomach), stomach, or intestine. These problems may develop at any time during treatment, may happen without warning symptoms, and may cause death. The risk may be higher for people who take NSAIDs for a long time, are older in age, have poor health, who smoke, or who drink large amounts of alcohol while taking ibuprofen. Tell your doctor if you take any of the following medications: anticoagulants ('blood thinners'); aspirin; other NSAIDs such as naproxen (Aleve, Naprosyn); oral steroids such as dexamethasone, methylprednisolone (Medrol), and prednisone (Rayos);selective serotonin reuptake inhibitors (SSRIs) such as citalopram (Celexa), fluoxetine (Prozac, Sarafem, Selfemra, in Symbyax), fluvoxamine (Luvox), paroxetine (Brisdelle, Paxil, Pexeva), and sertraline (Zoloft); or serotonin norepinephrine reuptake inhibitors (SNRIs) such as desvenlafaxine (Khedezla, Pristiq), duloxetine (Cymbalta), and venlafaxine (Effexor XR). Also tell your doctor if you have or have ever had ulcers, bleeding in your stomach or intestines, or other bleeding disorders. If you experience any of the following symptoms, stop taking ibuprofen and call your doctor: stomach pain, heartburn, vomit that is bloody or looks like coffee grounds, blood in the stool, or black and tarry stools. Keep all appointments with your doctor and the laboratory. Your doctor will monitor your symptoms carefully and will probably order certain tests to check your body's response to ibuprofen. Be sure to tell your doctor how you are feeling so that your doctor can prescribe the right amount of medication to treat your condition with the lowest risk of serious side effects. Your doctor or pharmacist will give you the manufacturer's patient information sheet (Medication Guide) when you begin treatment with prescription ibuprofen and each time you refill your prescription. Read the information carefully and ask your doctor or pharmacist if you have any questions. You can also visit the Food and Drug Administration (FDA) website ( http://www.fda.gov/Drugs/DrugSafety/ucm085729.htm ) or the manufacturer's website to obtain the Medication Guide. Why is this medication prescribed? Prescription ibuprofen is used to relieve pain, tenderness, swelling, and stiffness caused by osteoarthritis (arthritis caused by a breakdown of the lining of the joints) and rheumatoid arthritis (arthritis caused by swelling of the lining of the joints). It is also used to relieve mild to moderate pain, including menstrual pain (pain that happens before or during a menstrual period). Nonprescription ibuprofen is used to reduce fever and to relieve minor aches and pain from headaches, muscle aches, arthritis, menstrual periods, the common cold, toothaches, and backaches. Ibuprofen is in a class of medications called NSAIDs. It works by stopping the body's production of a substance that causes pain, fever, and inflammation. How should this medicine be used? Prescription ibuprofen comes as a tablet and suspension (liquid) to take by mouth. It is usually taken three or four times a day for arthritis or every 4 to 6 hours as needed for pain. Nonprescription ibuprofen comes as a tablet, chewable tablet, capsule, gel capsule, suspension (liquid), and drops (concentrated liquid). Adults and children older than 12 years of age may usually take nonprescription ibuprofen every 4 to 6 hours as needed for pain or fever, but should not take more than 6 doses in 24 hours. Children and infants may usually be given nonprescription ibuprofen every 6 to 8 hours as needed for pain or fever, but should not be given more than 4 doses in 24 hours. Ibuprofen may be taken with food or milk to prevent stomach upset. If you are taking ibuprofen on a regular basis, you should take it at the same time(s) every day. Follow the directions on the package or prescription label carefully, and ask your doctor or pharmacist to explain any part you do not understand. Take ibuprofen exactly as directed. Do not take more or less of it or take it more often than directed by the package label or prescribed by your doctor. Ibuprofen comes alone and in combination with other medications. Some of these combination products are available by prescription only, and some of these combination products are available without a prescription and are used to treat cough and cold symptoms and other conditions. If your doctor has prescribed a medication that contains ibuprofen, you should be careful not to take any nonprescription medications that also contain ibuprofen. Swallow the tablet whole; do not chew or crush it. If you are selecting a product to treat cough or cold symptoms, ask your doctor or pharmacist for advice on which product is best for you. Check nonprescription product labels carefully before using two or more products at the same time. These products may contain the same active ingredient(s) and taking them together could cause you to receive an overdose. This is especially important if you will be giving cough and cold medications to a child. Nonprescription cough and cold combination products, including products that contain ibuprofen, can cause serious side effects or death in young children. Do not give these products to children younger than 4 years of age. If you give these products to children 4 to 11 years of age, use caution and follow the package directions carefully. If you are giving ibuprofen or a combination product that contains ibuprofen to a child, read the package label carefully to be sure that it is the right product for a child of that age. Do not give ibuprofen products that are made for adults to children. Before you give an ibuprofen product to a child, check the package label to find out how much medication the child should receive. Give the dose that matches the child's age on the chart. Ask the child's doctor if you don't know how much medication to give the child. Shake the suspension and drops well before each use to mix the medication evenly. Use the measuring cup provided to measure each dose of the suspension, and use the dosing device provided to measure each dose of the drops. Stop taking nonprescription ibuprofen and call your doctor if your symptoms get worse, you develop new or unexpected symptoms, the part of your body that was painful becomes red or swollen, your pain lasts for more than 10 days, or your fever lasts more than 3 days. Stop giving nonprescription ibuprofen to your child and call your child's doctor if your child does not start to feel better during the first 24 hours of treatment. Also stop giving nonprescription ibuprofen to your child and call your child's doctor if your child develops new symptoms, including redness or swelling on the painful part of his body, or if your child's pain or fever get worse or lasts longer than 3 days. Do not give nonprescription ibuprofen to a child who has a sore throat that is severe or does not go away, or that comes along with fever, headache, nausea, or vomiting. Call the child's doctor right away, because these symptoms may be signs of a more serious condition. Other uses for this medicine Ibuprofen is also sometimes used to treat ankylosing spondylitis (arthritis that mainly affects the spine), gouty arthritis (joint pain caused by a build-up of certain substances in the joints), and psoriatic arthritis (arthritis that occurs with a long-lasting skin disease that causes scaling and swelling). Talk to your doctor about the risks of using this drug for your condition. This medication is sometimes prescribed for other uses; ask your doctor or pharmacist for more information. What special precautions should I follow? Before taking ibuprofen, tell your doctor and pharmacist if you are allergic to ibuprofen, aspirin or other NSAIDs such as ketoprofen and naproxen (Aleve, Naprosyn), any other medications, or any of the inactive ingredients in the type of ibuprofen you plan to take. Ask your pharmacist or check the label on the package for a list of the inactive ingredients. tell your doctor and pharmacist what prescription and nonprescription medications, vitamins, nutritional supplements, and herbal products you are taking or plan to take.Your doctor may need to change the doses of your medications or monitor you more carefully for side effects. do not take nonprescription ibuprofen with any other medication for pain unless your doctor tells you that you should. tell your doctor if you have or have ever had any of the conditions mentioned in the IMPORTANT WARNING section or asthma, especially if you also have frequent stuffed or runny nose or nasal polyps (swelling of the inside of the nose); heart failure; swelling of the hands, arms, feet, ankles, or lower legs; lupus (a condition in which the body attacks many of its own tissues and organs, often including the skin, joints, blood, and kidneys); or liver or kidney disease. If you are giving ibuprofen to a child, tell the child's doctor if the child has not been drinking fluids or has lost a large amount of fluid from repeated vomiting or diarrhea. tell your doctor if you are pregnant, plan to become pregnant; or are breast-feeding. Ibuprofen may harm the fetus and cause problems with delivery if it is taken around 20 weeks or later during pregnancy. Do not take ibuprofen around or after 20 weeks of pregnancy, unless you are told to do so by your doctor. If you become pregnant while taking ibuprofen, call your doctor. if you are having surgery, including dental surgery, tell the doctor or dentist that you are taking ibuprofen. talk to your doctor about the risks and benefits of taking ibuprofen if you are 75 years of age or older. Do not take this medication for a longer period of time or at a higher dose than recommended on the product label or by your doctor. if you have phenylketonuria (PKU, an inherited condition in which a special diet must be followed to prevent damage to your brain that can cause severe intellectual disability), read the package label carefully before taking nonprescription ibuprofen. Some types of nonprescription ibuprofen may be sweetened with aspartame, a source of phenylalanine. What special dietary instructions should I follow? Unless your doctor tells you otherwise, continue your normal diet. What should I do if I forget a dose? If you are taking ibuprofen on a regular basis, take the missed dose as soon as you remember it. However, if it is almost time for the next dose, skip the missed dose and continue your regular dosing schedule. Do not take a double dose to make up for a missed one. What side effects can this medication cause? Ibuprofen may cause side effects. Tell your doctor if any of these symptoms are severe or do not go away: constipation gas or bloating dizziness nervousness ringing in the ears Some side effects can be serious. If you experience any of the following symptoms, or those mentioned in the IMPORTANT WARNING section, call your doctor immediately. Do not take any more ibuprofen until you speak to your doctor. unexplained weight gain shortness of breath or difficulty breathing swelling of the abdomen, feet, ankles, or lower legs diarrhea fever, rash, blisters, or peeling skin itching hives swelling of the eyes, face, throat, arms, or hands difficulty breathing or swallowing hoarseness excessive tiredness pain in the upper right part of the stomach nausea loss of appetite yellowing of the skin or eyes flu-like symptoms pale skin fast heartbeat cloudy, discolored, or bloody urine back pain difficult or painful urination blurred vision, changes in color vision, or other vision problems headache, stiff neck, fever Ibuprofen may cause other side effects. Call your doctor if you have any unusual problems while taking this medication. If you experience a serious side effect, you or your doctor may send a report to the Food and Drug Administration's (FDA) MedWatch Adverse Event Reporting program online ( http://www.fda.gov/Safety/MedWatch ) or by phone (1-800-332-1088). What should I know about storage and disposal of this medication? Keep this medication in the container it came in, tightly closed, and out of reach of children. Store it at room temperature and away from excess heat and moisture (not in the bathroom). It is important to keep all medication out of sight and reach of children as many containers (such as weekly pill minders and those for eye drops, creams, patches, and inhalers) are not child-resistant and young children can open them easily. To protect young children from poisoning, always lock safety caps and immediately place the medication in a safe location – one that is up and away and out of their sight and reach. http://www.upandaway.org Unneeded medications should be disposed of in special ways to ensure that pets, children, and other people cannot consume them. However, you should not flush this medication down the toilet. Instead, the best way to dispose of your medication is through a medicine take-back program. Talk to your pharmacist or contact your local garbage/recycling department to learn about take-back programs in your community. See the FDA's Safe Disposal of Medicines website ( http://goo.gl/c4Rm4p ) for more information if you do not have access to a take-back program. In case of emergency/overdose In case of overdose, call the poison control helpline at 1-800-222-1222. Information is also available online at https://www.poisonhelp.org/help . If the victim has collapsed, had a seizure, has trouble breathing, or can't be awakened, immediately call emergency services at 911. Symptoms of overdosage may include: extreme tiredness drowsiness stomach pain nausea vomiting slow or difficult breathing dizziness fast eye movements that you cannot control blue color around the lips, mouth, and nose What other information should I know? If you are taking prescription ibuprofen, do not let anyone else take your medication. Ask your pharmacist any questions you have about refilling your prescription. It is important for you to keep a written list of all of the prescription and nonprescription (over-the-counter) medicines you are taking, as well as any products such as vitamins, minerals, or other dietary supplements. You should bring this list with you each time you visit a doctor or if you are admitted to a hospital. It is also important information to carry with you in case of emergencies. Brand names Addaprin ® ¶ Advil ® Cedaprin ® ¶ I-Prin ® ¶ Midol ® Motrin ® Motrin ® IB NeoProfen ® ¶ Profen IB ® ¶ Proprinal ® ¶ Ultraprin ® ¶

[ Diphenhydramine pronounced as (dye fen hye' dra meen)  Diphenhydramine is used to relieve red, irritated, itchy, watery eyes; sneezing; and runny nose caused by hay fever, allergies, or the common cold. Diphenhydramine is also used to relieve cough caused by minor throat or airway irritation. Diphenhydramine is also used to prevent and treat motion sickness, and to treat insomnia (difficulty falling asleep or staying asleep). Diphenhydramine is also used to control abnormal movements in people who have early stage parkinsonian syndrome (a disorder of the nervous system that causes difficulties with movement, muscle control, and balance) or who are experiencing movement problems as a side effect of a medication. Diphenhydramine will relieve the symptoms of these conditions but will not treat the cause of the symptoms or speed recovery. Diphenhydramine should not be used to cause sleepiness in children. Diphenhydramine is in a class of medications called antihistamines. It works by blocking the action of histamine, a substance in the body that causes allergic symptoms. How should this medicine be used? Diphenhydramine comes as a tablet, a rapidly disintegrating (dissolving) tablet, a capsule, a liquid-filled capsule, a dissolving strip, powder, and a liquid to take by mouth. When diphenhydramine is used for the relief of allergies, cold, and cough symptoms, it is usually taken every 4 to 6 hours. When diphenhydramine is used to treat motion sickness, it is usually taken 30 minutes before departure and, if needed, before meals and at bedtime. When diphenhydramine is used to treat insomnia it is taken at bedtime (30 minutes before planned sleep). When diphenhydramine is used to treat abnormal movements, it is usually taken three times a day at first and then taken 4 times a day. Follow the directions on the package or on your prescription label carefully, and ask your doctor or pharmacist to explain any part you do not understand. Take diphenhydramine exactly as directed. Do not take more or less of it or take it more often than prescribed by your doctor or directed on the label. Diphenhydramine comes alone and in combination with pain relievers, fever reducers, and decongestants. Ask your doctor or pharmacist for advice on which product is best for your symptoms. Check nonprescription cough and cold product labels carefully before using two or more products at the same time. These products may contain the same active ingredient(s) and taking them together could cause you to receive an overdose. This is especially important if you will be giving cough and cold medications to a child. Nonprescription cough and cold combination products, including products that contain diphenhydramine, can cause serious side effects or death in young children. Do not give these products to children younger than 4 years of age. If you give these products to children 4 to 11 years of age, use caution and follow the package directions carefully. If you are giving diphenhydramine or a combination product that contains diphenhydramine to a child, read the package label carefully to be sure that it is the right product for a child of that age. Do not give diphenhydramine products that are made for adults to children. Before you give a diphenhydramine product to a child, check the package label to find out how much medication the child should receive. Give the dose that matches the child's age on the chart. Ask the child's doctor if you don't know how much medication to give the child. If you are taking the liquid, do not use a household spoon to measure your dose. Use the measuring spoon or cup that came with the medication or use a spoon made especially for measuring medication. If you are taking the dissolving strips, place the strips on your tongue one at a time and swallow after they melt. If you are taking the rapidly dissolving tablets, place a tablet on your tongue and close your mouth. The tablet will quickly dissolve and can be swallowed with or without water. If you are taking the capsules, swallow them whole. Do not try to break the capsules. Other uses for this medicine This medication is sometimes prescribed for other uses; ask your doctor or pharmacist for more information. What special precautions should I follow? Before taking diphenhydramine, tell your doctor and pharmacist if you are allergic to diphenhydramine, any other medications, or any of the ingredients in diphenhydramine preparations. Ask your doctor or pharmacist or check the package label for a list of the ingredients. tell your doctor and pharmacist what prescription and nonprescription medications, vitamins, nutritional supplements, and herbal products you are taking or plan to take. Be sure to mention any of the following: other diphenhydramine products (even those that are used on the skin); other medications for colds, hay fever, or allergies; medications for anxiety, depression, or seizures; muscle relaxants; narcotic medications for pain; sedatives; sleeping pills; and tranquilizers. tell your doctor if you have or have ever had asthma, emphysema, chronic bronchitis, or other types of lung disease; glaucoma (a condition in which increased pressure in the eye can lead to gradual loss of vision); ulcers; difficulty urinating (due to an enlarged prostate gland); heart disease; high blood pressure; seizures; or an overactive thyroid gland.If you will be using the liquid, tell your doctor if you have been told to follow a low-sodium diet. tell your doctor if you are pregnant, plan to become pregnant, or are breast-feeding. If you become pregnant while taking diphenhydramine, call your doctor. you should know that generally diphenhydramine should not be used in older adults, except to manage serious allergic reactions, because it is not as safe or effective as other medication(s) to treat your condition. If you are 65 years of age or older, talk to your doctor about the risks and benefits of taking this medication. if you are having surgery, including dental surgery, tell the doctor or dentist that you are taking diphenhydramine. you should know that this medication may make you drowsy. Do not drive a car or operate machinery until you know how this medication affects you. remember that alcohol can add to the drowsiness caused by this medication. Avoid alcoholic beverages while you are taking this medication. if you have phenylketonuria (PKU, an inherited condition in which a special diet must be followed to prevent damage to your brain that can cause severe intellectual disability), you should know that some brands of chewable tablets and rapidly disintegrating tablets that contain diphenhydramine may be sweetened with aspartame, a source of phenylalanine. What special dietary instructions should I follow? Unless your doctor tells you otherwise, continue your normal diet. What should I do if I forget a dose? Diphenhydramine is usually taken as needed. If your doctor has told you to take diphenhydramine regularly, take the missed dose as soon as you remember it. However, if it is almost time for the next dose, skip the missed dose and continue your regular dosing schedule. Do not take a double dose to make up for a missed one. What side effects can this medication cause? Diphenhydramine may cause side effects. Tell your doctor if any of these symptoms are severe or do not go away: dry mouth, nose, and throat drowsiness dizziness nausea vomiting loss of appetite constipation increased chest congestion headache muscle weakness excitement (especially in children) nervousness Some side effects may be serious. If you experience any of the following symptoms, call your doctor immediately: vision problems difficulty urinating or painful urination Diphenhydramine may cause other side effects. Call your doctor if you experience any unusual problems while you are taking this medication. If you experience a serious side effect, you or your doctor may send a report to the Food and Drug Administration's (FDA) MedWatch Adverse Event Reporting program online ( http://www.fda.gov/Safety/MedWatch ) or by phone (1-800-332-1088). What should I know about storage and disposal of this medication? Keep this medication in the container it came in, tightly closed, and out of reach of children. Store it at room temperature and away from excess heat and moisture (not in the bathroom). It is important to keep all medication out of sight and reach of children as many containers (such as weekly pill minders and those for eye drops, creams, patches, and inhalers) are not child-resistant and young children can open them easily. To protect young children from poisoning, always lock safety caps and immediately place the medication in a safe location – one that is up and away and out of their sight and reach. http://www.upandaway.org Unneeded medications should be disposed of in special ways to ensure that pets, children, and other people cannot consume them. However, you should not flush this medication down the toilet. Instead, the best way to dispose of your medication is through a medicine take-back program. Talk to your pharmacist or contact your local garbage/recycling department to learn about take-back programs in your community. See the FDA's Safe Disposal of Medicines website ( http://goo.gl/c4Rm4p ) for more information if you do not have access to a take-back program. In case of emergency/overdose In case of overdose, call the poison control helpline at 1-800-222-1222. Information is also available online at https://www.poisonhelp.org/help . If the victim has collapsed, had a seizure, has trouble breathing, or can't be awakened, immediately call emergency services at 911. What other information should I know? Ask your pharmacist any questions you have about diphenhydramine. It is important for you to keep a written list of all of the prescription and nonprescription (over-the-counter) medicines you are taking, as well as any products such as vitamins, minerals, or other dietary supplements. You should bring this list with you each time you visit a doctor or if you are admitted to a hospital. It is also important information to carry with you in case of emergencies. Brand names Aler-Dryl ® Allergia-C ® ¶ Allermax ® ¶ Altaryl ® ¶ Banophen ® ¶ Ben Tann ® § Benadryl ® Bromanate AF ® ¶ Compoz Nighttime Sleep Aid ® ¶ Dicopanol ® § Diphedryl ® ¶ Diphen ® ¶ Diphenadryl ® ¶ Diphenhist ® Diphenylin ® ¶ Dytan ® ¶ Hydramine ® ¶ Nytol ® Pardryl ® ¶ PediaCare Children's Allergy ® Siladryl ® Silphen ® Sominex ® Unisom ®









[ Phenylephrine pronounced as (fen il ef' rin)  Phenylephrine is used to relieve nasal discomfort caused by colds, allergies, and hay fever. It is also used to relieve sinus congestion and pressure. Phenylephrine will relieve symptoms but will not treat the cause of the symptoms or speed recovery. Phenylephrine is in a class of medications called nasal decongestants. It works by reducing swelling of the blood vessels in the nasal passages. How should this medicine be used? Phenylephrine comes as a tablet, a liquid, or a dissolving strip to take by mouth. It is usually taken every 4 hours as needed. Follow the directions on your prescription label or the package label carefully, and ask your doctor or pharmacist to explain any part you do not understand. Take phenylephrine exactly as directed. Do not take more or less of it or take it more often than prescribed by your doctor or directed on the label. Phenylephrine comes alone and in combination with other medications. Ask your doctor or pharmacist for advice on which product is best for your symptoms. Check nonprescription cough and cold product labels carefully before using two or more products at the same time. These products may contain the same active ingredient(s) and taking them together could cause you to receive an overdose. This is especially important if you will be giving cough and cold medications to a child. Nonprescription cough and cold combination products, including products that contain phenylephrine, can cause serious side effects or death in young children. Do not give these products to children younger than 4 years of age. If you give these products to children 4 to 11 years of age, use caution and follow the package directions carefully. If you are giving phenylephrine or a combination product that contains phenylephrine to a child, read the package label carefully to be sure that it is the right product for a child of that age. Do not give phenylephrine products that are made for adults to children. Before you give a phenylephrine product to a child, check the package label to find out how much medication the child should receive. Give the dose that matches the child's age on the chart. Ask the child's doctor if you don't know how much medication to give the child. If you are taking the liquid, do not use a household spoon to measure your dose. Use the measuring spoon or cup that came with the medication or use a spoon made especially for measuring medication. If your symptoms do not get better within 7 days or if you have a fever, stop taking phenylephrine and call your doctor. If you are taking the dissolving strips, place one strip on your tongue and allow it to dissolve. Other uses for this medicine This medication may be prescribed for other uses; ask your doctor or pharmacist for more information. What special precautions should I follow? Before taking phenylephrine, tell your doctor and pharmacist if you are allergic to phenylephrine, any other medications, or any of the ingredients in phenylephrine preparations. do not take phenylephrine if you are taking a monoamine oxidase (MAO) inhibitor, such as isocarboxazid (Marplan), phenelzine (Nardil), selegiline (Eldepryl, Emsam, Zelapar), and tranylcypromine (Parnate), or if you have stopped taking one of these medications within the past 2 weeks. tell your doctor and pharmacist what other prescription and nonprescription medications, vitamins, nutritional supplements, and herbal products you are taking or plan to take. tell your doctor if you have or have ever had high blood pressure, diabetes, trouble urinating because of an enlarged prostate gland, or thyroid or heart disease. tell your doctor if you are pregnant, plan to become pregnant, or are breast-feeding. If you become pregnant while taking phenylephrine, call your doctor. if you are having surgery, including dental surgery, tell the doctor or dentist that you are taking phenylephrine. if you have phenylketonuria (PKU, an inherited condition in which a special diet must be followed to prevent damage to your brain that can cause severe intellectual disability), you should know that some phenylephrine products may be sweetened with aspartame, a source of phenylalanine. What special dietary instructions should I follow? Unless your doctor tells you otherwise, continue your normal diet. What should I do if I forget a dose? This medication is usually taken as needed. If your doctor has told you to take phenylephrine regularly, take the missed dose as soon as you remember it. However, if it is almost time for the next dose, skip the missed dose and continue your regular dosing schedule. Do not take a double dose to make up for a missed one. What side effects can this medication cause? Phenylephrine may cause side effects. Some side effects can be serious. If you experience any of these symptoms, stop using phenylephrine and call your doctor: nervousness dizziness sleeplessness Phenylephrine may cause other side effects. Call your doctor if you have any unusual problems while taking this medication. If you experience a serious side effect, you or your doctor may send a report to the Food and Drug Administration's (FDA) MedWatch Adverse Event Reporting program online ( http://www.fda.gov/Safety/MedWatch ) or by phone (1-800-332-1088). What should I know about storage and disposal of this medication? Keep this medication in the container it came in, tightly closed, and out of reach of children. Store it at room temperature and away from excess heat and moisture (not in the bathroom). It is important to keep all medication out of sight and reach of children as many containers (such as weekly pill minders and those for eye drops, creams, patches, and inhalers) are not child-resistant and young children can open them easily. To protect young children from poisoning, always lock safety caps and immediately place the medication in a safe location – one that is up and away and out of their sight and reach. http://www.upandaway.org Unneeded medications should be disposed of in special ways to ensure that pets, children, and other people cannot consume them. However, you should not flush this medication down the toilet. Instead, the best way to dispose of your medication is through a medicine take-back program. Talk to your pharmacist or contact your local garbage/recycling department to learn about take-back programs in your community. See the FDA's Safe Disposal of Medicines website ( http://goo.gl/c4Rm4p ) for more information if you do not have access to a take-back program. In case of emergency/overdose In case of overdose, call the poison control helpline at 1-800-222-1222. Information is also available online at https://www.poisonhelp.org/help . If the victim has collapsed, had a seizure, has trouble breathing, or can't be awakened, immediately call emergency services at 911. What other information should I know? Ask your pharmacist any questions you have about phenylephrine. It is important for you to keep a written list of all of the prescription and nonprescription (over-the-counter) medicines you are taking, as well as any products such as vitamins, minerals, or other dietary supplements. You should bring this list with you each time you visit a doctor or if you are admitted to a hospital. It is also important information to carry with you in case of emergencies. Brand names Children's Sudafed PE Nasal Decongestant ® Lusonal ® § PediaCare Children's Decongestant ® Sudafed PE Congestion ® Suphedrin PE ®

[ Phenylephrine pronounced as (fen il ef' rin)  Phenylephrine is used to relieve nasal discomfort caused by colds, allergies, and hay fever. It is also used to relieve sinus congestion and pressure. Phenylephrine will relieve symptoms but will not treat the cause of the symptoms or speed recovery. Phenylephrine is in a class of medications called nasal decongestants. It works by reducing swelling of the blood vessels in the nasal passages. How should this medicine be used? Phenylephrine comes as a tablet, a liquid, or a dissolving strip to take by mouth. It is usually taken every 4 hours as needed. Follow the directions on your prescription label or the package label carefully, and ask your doctor or pharmacist to explain any part you do not understand. Take phenylephrine exactly as directed. Do not take more or less of it or take it more often than prescribed by your doctor or directed on the label. Phenylephrine comes alone and in combination with other medications. Ask your doctor or pharmacist for advice on which product is best for your symptoms. Check nonprescription cough and cold product labels carefully before using two or more products at the same time. These products may contain the same active ingredient(s) and taking them together could cause you to receive an overdose. This is especially important if you will be giving cough and cold medications to a child. Nonprescription cough and cold combination products, including products that contain phenylephrine, can cause serious side effects or death in young children. Do not give these products to children younger than 4 years of age. If you give these products to children 4 to 11 years of age, use caution and follow the package directions carefully. If you are giving phenylephrine or a combination product that contains phenylephrine to a child, read the package label carefully to be sure that it is the right product for a child of that age. Do not give phenylephrine products that are made for adults to children. Before you give a phenylephrine product to a child, check the package label to find out how much medication the child should receive. Give the dose that matches the child's age on the chart. Ask the child's doctor if you don't know how much medication to give the child. If you are taking the liquid, do not use a household spoon to measure your dose. Use the measuring spoon or cup that came with the medication or use a spoon made especially for measuring medication. If your symptoms do not get better within 7 days or if you have a fever, stop taking phenylephrine and call your doctor. If you are taking the dissolving strips, place one strip on your tongue and allow it to dissolve. Other uses for this medicine This medication may be prescribed for other uses; ask your doctor or pharmacist for more information. What special precautions should I follow? Before taking phenylephrine, tell your doctor and pharmacist if you are allergic to phenylephrine, any other medications, or any of the ingredients in phenylephrine preparations. do not take phenylephrine if you are taking a monoamine oxidase (MAO) inhibitor, such as isocarboxazid (Marplan), phenelzine (Nardil), selegiline (Eldepryl, Emsam, Zelapar), and tranylcypromine (Parnate), or if you have stopped taking one of these medications within the past 2 weeks. tell your doctor and pharmacist what other prescription and nonprescription medications, vitamins, nutritional supplements, and herbal products you are taking or plan to take. tell your doctor if you have or have ever had high blood pressure, diabetes, trouble urinating because of an enlarged prostate gland, or thyroid or heart disease. tell your doctor if you are pregnant, plan to become pregnant, or are breast-feeding. If you become pregnant while taking phenylephrine, call your doctor. if you are having surgery, including dental surgery, tell the doctor or dentist that you are taking phenylephrine. if you have phenylketonuria (PKU, an inherited condition in which a special diet must be followed to prevent damage to your brain that can cause severe intellectual disability), you should know that some phenylephrine products may be sweetened with aspartame, a source of phenylalanine. What special dietary instructions should I follow? Unless your doctor tells you otherwise, continue your normal diet. What should I do if I forget a dose? This medication is usually taken as needed. If your doctor has told you to take phenylephrine regularly, take the missed dose as soon as you remember it. However, if it is almost time for the next dose, skip the missed dose and continue your regular dosing schedule. Do not take a double dose to make up for a missed one. What side effects can this medication cause? Phenylephrine may cause side effects. Some side effects can be serious. If you experience any of these symptoms, stop using phenylephrine and call your doctor: nervousness dizziness sleeplessness Phenylephrine may cause other side effects. Call your doctor if you have any unusual problems while taking this medication. If you experience a serious side effect, you or your doctor may send a report to the Food and Drug Administration's (FDA) MedWatch Adverse Event Reporting program online ( http://www.fda.gov/Safety/MedWatch ) or by phone (1-800-332-1088). What should I know about storage and disposal of this medication? Keep this medication in the container it came in, tightly closed, and out of reach of children. Store it at room temperature and away from excess heat and moisture (not in the bathroom). It is important to keep all medication out of sight and reach of children as many containers (such as weekly pill minders and those for eye drops, creams, patches, and inhalers) are not child-resistant and young children can open them easily. To protect young children from poisoning, always lock safety caps and immediately place the medication in a safe location – one that is up and away and out of their sight and reach. http://www.upandaway.org Unneeded medications should be disposed of in special ways to ensure that pets, children, and other people cannot consume them. However, you should not flush this medication down the toilet. Instead, the best way to dispose of your medication is through a medicine take-back program. Talk to your pharmacist or contact your local garbage/recycling department to learn about take-back programs in your community. See the FDA's Safe Disposal of Medicines website ( http://goo.gl/c4Rm4p ) for more information if you do not have access to a take-back program. In case of emergency/overdose In case of overdose, call the poison control helpline at 1-800-222-1222. Information is also available online at https://www.poisonhelp.org/help . If the victim has collapsed, had a seizure, has trouble breathing, or can't be awakened, immediately call emergency services at 911. What other information should I know? Ask your pharmacist any questions you have about phenylephrine. It is important for you to keep a written list of all of the prescription and nonprescription (over-the-counter) medicines you are taking, as well as any products such as vitamins, minerals, or other dietary supplements. You should bring this list with you each time you visit a doctor or if you are admitted to a hospital. It is also important information to carry with you in case of emergencies. Brand names Children's Sudafed PE Nasal Decongestant ® Lusonal ® § PediaCare Children's Decongestant ® Sudafed PE Congestion ® Suphedrin PE ®





















[ Pseudoephedrine pronounced as (soo doe e fed' rin)  Pseudoephedrine is used to relieve nasal congestion caused by colds, allergies, and hay fever. It is also used to temporarily relieve sinus congestion and pressure. Pseudoephedrine will relieve symptoms but will not treat the cause of the symptoms or speed recovery. Pseudoephedrine is in a class of medications called nasal decongestants. It works by causing narrowing of the blood vessels in the nasal passages. How should this medicine be used? Pseudoephedrine comes as a regular tablet, a 12-hour extended-release (long-acting) tablet, a 24-hour extended-release tablet, and a solution (liquid) to be taken by mouth. The regular tablets and liquid are usually taken every 4 to 6 hours. The 12-hour extended-release tablets usually are taken every 12 hours, and you should not take more than two doses in a 24-hour period. The 24-hour extended-release tablets usually are taken once a day, and you should not take more than one dose in a 24-hour period. To help prevent trouble sleeping, take the last dose of the day several hours before bedtime. Follow the directions on the package label or on your prescription label carefully, and ask your doctor or pharmacist to explain any part you do not understand. Take pseudoephedrine exactly as directed. Do not take more or less of it or take it more often than prescribed by your doctor or directed on the label. Pseudoephedrine comes alone and in combination with other medications. Ask your doctor or pharmacist for advice on which product is best for your symptoms. Check nonprescription cough and cold product labels carefully before using 2 or more products at the same time. These products may contain the same active ingredient(s) and taking them together could cause you to receive an overdose. This is especially important if you will be giving cough and cold medications to a child. Nonprescription cough and cold combination products, including products that contain pseudoephedrine, can cause serious side effects or death in young children. Do not give nonprescription pseudoephedrine products to children younger than 4 years of age. If you give these products to children 4-11 years of age, use caution and follow the package directions carefully. Do not give pseudoephedrine extended-release tablets to children younger than 12 years of age. If you are giving pseudoephedrine or a combination product that contains pseudoephedrine to a child, read the package label carefully to be sure that it is the right product for a child of that age. Do not give pseudoephedrine products that are made for adults to children. Before you give a pseudoephedrine product to a child, check the package label to find out how much medication the child should receive. Give the dose that matches the child's age on the chart. Ask the child's doctor if you don't know how much medication to give the child. If you are taking the liquid, do not use a household spoon to measure your dose. Use the measuring spoon or cup that came with the medication or use a spoon made especially for measuring medication. If your symptoms do not get better within 7 days or if you have a fever, stop taking pseudoephedrine and call your doctor. Swallow the extended-release tablets whole; do not break, crush, or chew them. Other uses for this medicine This medication is also sometimes used to prevent ear pain and blockage caused by pressure changes during air travel or underwater diving. Talk to your doctor or pharmacist for more information. This medication is sometimes prescribed for other uses; ask your doctor or pharmacist for more information. What special precautions should I follow? Before taking pseudoephedrine, tell your doctor and pharmacist if you are allergic to pseudoephedrine, any other medications, or any of the inactive ingredients in the pseudoephedrine product you plan to take. Check the package label for a list of the ingredients. do not take pseudoephedrine if you are taking a monoamine oxidase (MAO) inhibitor such as isocarboxazid (Marplan), phenelzine (Nardil), selegiline (Eldepryl, Emsam, Zelapar), and tranylcypromine (Parnate), or if you have stopped taking one of these medications within the past 2 weeks. tell your doctor and pharmacist what prescription and nonprescription medications, vitamins, nutritional supplements, and herbal products you are taking or plan to take. Be sure to mention medications for diet or appetite control, asthma, colds, or high blood pressure. tell your doctor if you have or have ever had high blood pressure, glaucoma (a condition in which increased pressure in the eye can lead to gradual loss of vision), diabetes, difficulty urinating (due to an enlarged prostate gland), or thyroid or heart disease. If you plan to take the 24-hour extended-release tablets, tell your doctor if you have had a narrowing or blockage of your digestive system. tell your doctor if you are pregnant, plan to become pregnant, or are breast-feeding. If you become pregnant while taking pseudoephedrine, call your doctor. if you are having surgery, including dental surgery, tell the doctor or dentist that you are taking pseudoephedrine. What special dietary instructions should I follow? Foods and drinks that contain large amounts of caffeine can make the side effects of pseudoephedrine worse. What should I do if I forget a dose? This medication is usually taken as needed. If your doctor has told you to take pseudoephedrine regularly, take the missed dose as soon as you remember it. However, if it is almost time for the next dose, skip the missed dose and continue your regular dosing schedule. Do not take a double dose to make up for a missed one. What side effects can this medication cause? Pseudoephedrine may cause side effects. Tell your doctor if any of these symptoms are severe or do not go away: restlessness nausea vomiting weakness headache Some side effects can be serious. If you experience any of the following symptoms, call your doctor immediately: nervousness dizziness difficulty sleeping stomach pain difficulty breathing fast, pounding, or irregular heartbeat Pseudoephedrine may cause other side effects. Call your doctor if you have any unusual problems while you are taking this medication. If you experience a serious side effect, you or your doctor may send a report to the Food and Drug Administration's (FDA) MedWatch Adverse Event Reporting program online ( http://www.fda.gov/Safety/MedWatch ) or by phone (1-800-332-1088). What should I know about storage and disposal of this medication? Keep this medication in the container it came in, tightly closed, and out of reach of children. Store it at room temperature and away from excess heat and moisture (not in the bathroom). Unneeded medications should be disposed of in special ways to ensure that pets, children, and other people cannot consume them. However, you should not flush this medication down the toilet. Instead, the best way to dispose of your medication is through a medicine take-back program. Talk to your pharmacist or contact your local garbage/recycling department to learn about take-back programs in your community. See the FDA's Safe Disposal of Medicines website ( http://goo.gl/c4Rm4p ) for more information if you do not have access to a take-back program. It is important to keep all medication out of sight and reach of children as many containers (such as weekly pill minders and those for eye drops, creams, patches, and inhalers) are not child-resistant and young children can open them easily. To protect young children from poisoning, always lock safety caps and immediately place the medication in a safe location – one that is up and away and out of their sight and reach. http://www.upandaway.org In case of emergency/overdose In case of overdose, call the poison control helpline at 1-800-222-1222. Information is also available online at https://www.poisonhelp.org/help . If the victim has collapsed, had a seizure, has trouble breathing, or can't be awakened, immediately call emergency services at 911. What other information should I know? If you are taking the 24-hour extended-release tablets, you may notice something that looks like a tablet in your stool. This is just the empty tablet shell, and this does not mean that you did not get your complete dose of medication. Ask your pharmacist any questions you have about pseudoephedrine. It is important for you to keep a written list of all of the prescription and nonprescription (over-the-counter) medicines you are taking, as well as any products such as vitamins, minerals, or other dietary supplements. You should bring this list with you each time you visit a doctor or if you are admitted to a hospital. It is also important information to carry with you in case of emergencies. Brand names Afrinol ® ¶ Cenafed ® ¶ Children's Sudafed Nasal Decongestant ® Congestaclear ® ¶ Efidac ® ¶ Myfedrine ® ¶ Pseudocot ® ¶ Ridafed ® ¶ Silfedrine ® Sudafed 12/24 Hour ® Sudafed Congestion ® Sudodrin ® ¶ SudoGest ® Sudrine ® ¶ Superfed ® ¶ Suphedrin ® Allegra-D® (as a combination product containing Fexofenadine, Pseudoephedrine)







[ Diphenhydramine Topical pronounced as (dye fen hye' dra meen) To use the sharing features on this page, please enable JavaScript. Why is this medication prescribed? How should this medicine be used? What special precautions should I follow? What should I do if I forget a dose? What side effects can this medication cause? What should I know about storage and disposal of this medication? What other information should I know? Brand names Why is this medication prescribed? Diphenhydramine, an antihistamine, is used to relieve the itching of insect bites, sunburns, bee stings, poison ivy, poison oak, and minor skin irritation. This medication is sometimes prescribed for other uses; ask your doctor or pharmacist for more information. How should this medicine be used? Diphenhydramine topical comes in cream, lotion, gel, and spray to be applied to the skin. It is used three or four times a day. Follow the directions on the package or on your prescription label carefully, and ask your doctor or pharmacist to explain any part you do not understand. Use diphenhydramine exactly as directed. Do not use more or less of it or use it more often than directed by your doctor. Thoroughly clean the affected area, allow it to dry, and then gently rub the medication in until most of it disappears. Use just enough medication to cover the affected area. You should wash your hands after applying the medication. Do not apply diphenhydramine on chicken pox or measles, and do not use it on a child younger than 2 years of age unless directed to do so by a doctor. What special precautions should I follow? Before using diphenhydramine, tell your doctor and pharmacist if you are allergic to diphenhydramine or any other drugs. Tell your doctor and pharmacist what prescription and nonprescription medications, vitamins, nutritional supplements, and herbal products you are taking or plan to take. tell your doctor if you are pregnant, plan to become pregnant, or are breast-feeding. If you become pregnant while using diphenhydramine, call your doctor. plan to avoid unnecessary or prolonged exposure to sunlight and to wear protective clothing, sunglasses, and sunscreen. Diphenhydramine may make your skin sensitive to sunlight. What should I do if I forget a dose? Apply the missed dose as soon as you remember it. However, if it is almost time for the next dose, skip the missed dose and continue your regular dosing schedule. Do not apply a double dose to make up for a missed one. What side effects can this medication cause? Diphenhydramine may cause side effects. Tell your doctor if any of these symptoms are severe or do not go away: skin rash sunburn increased sensitivity to sunlamps and sunlight What should I know about storage and disposal of this medication? Keep this medication in the container it came in, tightly closed, and out of reach of children. Store it at room temperature and away from excess heat and moisture (not in the bathroom). The spray is flammable. Keep it away from flames and extreme heat. It is important to keep all medication out of sight and reach of children as many containers (such as weekly pill minders and those for eye drops, creams, patches, and inhalers) are not child-resistant and young children can open them easily. To protect young children from poisoning, always lock safety caps and immediately place the medication in a safe location – one that is up and away and out of their sight and reach. http://www.upandaway.org What other information should I know? Keep all appointments with your doctor. Diphenhydramine is for external use only. Do not let diphenhydramine get into your eyes, nose, or mouth, and do not swallow it. Do not apply dressings, bandages, cosmetics, lotions, or other skin medications to the area being treated unless your doctor tells you. Do not let anyone else use your medication. Ask your pharmacist any questions you have about refilling your prescription. Tell your doctor if your skin condition becomes severe or does not go away. It is important for you to keep a written list of all of the prescription and nonprescription (over-the-counter) medicines you are taking, as well as any products such as vitamins, minerals, or other dietary supplements. You should bring this list with you each time you visit a doctor or if you are admitted to a hospital. It is also important information to carry with you in case of emergencies. Brand names Afterbite with Antihistamine Benadryl ® Itch Stopping Gel





[ Aspirin and Extended-Release Dipyridamole pronounced as (dye peer id' a mole) To use the sharing features on this page, please enable JavaScript. Why is this medication prescribed? How should this medicine be used? Other uses for this medicine What special precautions should I follow? What special dietary instructions should I follow? What should I do if I forget a dose? What side effects can this medication cause? What should I know about storage and disposal of this medication? In case of emergency/overdose What other information should I know? Why is this medication prescribed? The combination of aspirin and extended-release dipyridamole is in a class of drugs called antiplatelet agents. It works by preventing excessive blood clotting. It is used to reduce the risk of stroke in patients who have had or are at risk of stroke. How should this medicine be used? The combination of aspirin and extended-release dipyridamole comes as a capsule to take by mouth. It is usually taken twice a day, one capsule in the morning and one in the evening. Aspirin and extended-release dipyridamole should be swallowed whole. Do not open, crush, break, or chew the capsules. Follow the directions on your prescription label carefully, and ask your doctor or pharmacist to explain any part you do not understand. Take aspirin and extended-release dipyridamole exactly as directed. Do not take more or less of it or take it more often than prescribed by your doctor. The combination of aspirin and extended-release dipyridamole decreases the risk of having a stroke but does not eliminate that risk. Continue to take aspirin and extended-release dipyridamole even if you feel well. Do not stop taking aspirin and extended-release dipyridamole without talking to your doctor. Other uses for this medicine This medication may be prescribed for other uses; ask your doctor or pharmacist for more information. What special precautions should I follow? Before taking aspirin and extended-release dipyridamole, tell your doctor and pharmacist if you are allergic to aspirin, celecoxib (Celebrex), choline salicylate (Arthropan), diclofenac (Cataflam), diflunisal (Dolobid), dipyridamole (Persantine), etodolac (Lodine), fenoprofen (Nalfon), flurbiprofen (Ansaid), ibuprofen (Advil, Motrin, Nuprin), indomethacin (Indocin), ketoprofen (Orudis, Oruvail), ketorolac (Toradol), magnesium salicylate (Nuprin Backache, Doan's), meclofenamate, mefenamic acid (Ponstel), meloxicam (Mobic), nabumetone (Relafen), naproxen (Aleve, Naprosyn), oxaprozin (Daypro), piroxicam (Feldene), rofecoxib (Vioxx) (no longer available in the US), sulindac (Clinoril), tolmetin (Tolectin), or any other drugs. tell your doctor and pharmacist what other prescription and nonprescription medications, vitamins, nutritional supplements, and herbal products you are taking or plan to take. Be sure to mention any of the following: acetazolamide (Diamox); ambenonium (Mytelase); angiotensin-converting enzyme inhibitors such as benazepril (Lotensin), captopril (Capoten), enalapril (Vasotec), fosinopril (Monopril), lisinopril (Prinivil, Zestril), moexipril (Univasc), quinapril (Accupril), ramipril (Altace), and trandolapril (Mavik); anticoagulants ('blood thinners') such as warfarin (Coumadin) and heparin; beta-blockers such as acebutolol (Sectral), atenolol (Tenormin), betaxolol (Kerlone), bisoprolol (Zebeta), carteolol (Cartrol), carvedilol (Coreg), labetalol (Normodyne), metoprolol (Lopressor), nadolol (Corgard), penbutolol (Levatol), pindolol (Visken), propranolol (Inderal), sotalol (Betapace), and timolol (Blocadren); diabetes medications such as acetohexamide (Dymelor), chlorpropamide (Diabinese), glimepiride (Amaryl), glipizide (Glucotrol), glyburide (DiaBeta, Micronase, Glynase), repaglinide (Prandin), tolazamide (Tolinase), and tolbutamide (Orinase); diuretics ('water pills') such as amiloride (Midamor), bumetanide (Bumex), chlorothiazide (Diuril), chlorthalidone (Hygroton), ethacrynic acid (Edecrin), furosemide (Lasix), hydrochlorothiazide (Hydrodiuril), indapamide (Lozol), metolazone (Zaroxolyn), spironolactone (Aldactone), torsemide (Demadex), and triamterene (Dyrenium); methotrexate (Folex, Mexate, Rheumatrex); neostigmine (Prostigmin); nonsteroidal anti-inflammatory drugs (NSAIDs) such as celecoxib (Celebrex), choline salicylate (Arthropan), diclofenac (Cataflam), diflunisal (Dolobid), etodolac (Lodine), fenoprofen (Nalfon), flurbiprofen (Ansaid), ibuprofen (Advil, Motrin, Nuprin, others), indomethacin (Indocin), ketoprofen (Orudis, Oruvail), ketorolac (Toradol), magnesium salicylate (Nuprin Backache, Doan's), meclofenamate, mefenamic acid (Ponstel), meloxicam (Mobic), nabumetone (Relafen), naproxen (Aleve, Naprosyn), oxaprozin (Daypro), piroxicam (Feldene), sulindac (Clinoril), and tolmetin (Tolectin); phenytoin (Dilantin); probenecid (Benemid); pyridostigmine (Mestinon); sulfinpyrazone (Anturane); and valproic acid and related drugs (Depakene, Depakote). tell your doctor if you have or have ever had liver, kidney, or heart disease; a recent heart attack; bleeding disorders; low blood pressure; vitamin K deficiency; ulcers; the syndrome of asthma, rhinitis, and nasal polyps; or if you drink three or more alcoholic drinks a day. tell your doctor if you are pregnant, plan to become pregnant; or are breast-feeding. Aspirin may harm the fetus and cause problems with delivery if it is taken around 20 weeks or later during pregnancy. Do not take aspirin and extended-release dipyridamole around or after 20 weeks of pregnancy, unless you are told to do so by your doctor. If you become pregnant while taking aspirin and extended-release dipyridamole, call your doctor. if you are having surgery, including dental surgery, tell the doctor or dentist that you are taking aspirin and extended-release dipyridamole. Your doctor may tell you to stop taking aspirin and extended-release dipyridamole before surgery. What special dietary instructions should I follow? Unless your doctor tells you otherwise, continue your normal diet while taking aspirin and extended-release dipyridamole. What should I do if I forget a dose? Take the missed dose as soon as you remember it. However, if it is almost time for the next dose, skip the missed dose and continue your regular dosing schedule. Do not take a double dose to make up for a missed one. What side effects can this medication cause? Side effects from aspirin and extended-release dipyridamole can occur. Tell your doctor if any of these symptoms are severe or do not go away: headache heartburn stomach pain nausea vomiting diarrhea muscle and joint pain tiredness If you experience any of the following symptoms, call your doctor immediately: bleeding severe rash swelling of the lips, tongue, or mouth difficulty breathing warm feeling flushing sweating restlessness weakness dizziness chest pain rapid heartbeat ringing in the ears If you experience a serious side effect, you or your doctor may send a report to the Food and Drug Administration's (FDA) MedWatch Adverse Event Reporting program online ( http://www.fda.gov/Safety/MedWatch ) or by phone (1-800-332-1088). What should I know about storage and disposal of this medication? Keep this medication in the container it came in, tightly closed, and out of reach of children. Store it at room temperature and away from excess heat and moisture (not in the bathroom). It is important to keep all medication out of sight and reach of children as many containers (such as weekly pill minders and those for eye drops, creams, patches, and inhalers) are not child-resistant and young children can open them easily. To protect young children from poisoning, always lock safety caps and immediately place the medication in a safe location – one that is up and away and out of their sight and reach. http://www.upandaway.org Unneeded medications should be disposed of in special ways to ensure that pets, children, and other people cannot consume them. However, you should not flush this medication down the toilet. Instead, the best way to dispose of your medication is through a medicine take-back program. Talk to your pharmacist or contact your local garbage/recycling department to learn about take-back programs in your community. See the FDA's Safe Disposal of Medicines website ( http://goo.gl/c4Rm4p ) for more information if you do not have access to a take-back program. In case of emergency/overdose In case of overdose, call the poison control helpline at 1-800-222-1222. Information is also available online at https://www.poisonhelp.org/help . If the victim has collapsed, had a seizure, has trouble breathing, or can't be awakened, immediately call emergency services at 911. What other information should I know? Do not substitute the individual components of aspirin and dipyridamole (Persantine) for the combination product of aspirin and extended-release dipyridamole. Keep all appointments with your doctor and the laboratory. Your doctor may order certain lab tests to check your response to aspirin and extended-release dipyridamole. Do not let anyone else take your medication. Ask your pharmacist any questions you have about refilling your prescription. It is important for you to keep a written list of all of the prescription and nonprescription (over-the-counter) medicines you are taking, as well as any products such as vitamins, minerals, or other dietary supplements. You should bring this list with you each time you visit a doctor or if you are admitted to a hospital. It is also important information to carry with you in case of emergencies.

[ Loratadine pronounced as (lor at' a deen)  Loratadine is used to temporarily relieve the symptoms of hay fever (allergy to pollen, dust, or other substances in the air) and other allergies. These symptoms include sneezing, runny nose, and itchy eyes, nose, or throat. Loratadine is also used to treat itching and redness caused by hives. However, loratadine does not prevent hives or other allergic skin reactions. Loratadine is in a class of medications called antihistamines. It works by blocking the action of histamine, a substance in the body that causes allergic symptoms. Loratadine is also available in combination with pseudoephedrine (Sudafed, others). This monograph only includes information about the use of loratadine alone. If you are taking the loratadine and pseudoephedrine combination product, read the information on the package label or ask your doctor or pharmacist for more information. How should this medicine be used? Loratadine comes as a syrup (liquid), a tablet, and a rapidly disintegrating (dissolving) tablet to take by mouth. It is usually taken once a day with or without food. Follow the directions on the package label carefully, and ask your doctor or pharmacist to explain any part you do not understand. Take loratadine exactly as directed. Do not take more or less of it or take it more often than directed on the package label or recommended by your doctor. If you take more loratadine than directed, you may experience drowsiness. If you are taking the rapidly disintegrating tablet, follow the package directions to remove the tablet from the blister package without breaking the tablet. Do not try to push the tablet through the foil. After you remove the tablet from the blister package, immediately place it on your tongue and close your mouth. The tablet will quickly dissolve and can be swallowed with or without water. Do not use loratadine to treat hives that are bruised or blistered, that are an unusual color, or that do not itch. Call your doctor if you have this type of hives. Stop taking loratadine and call your doctor if your hives do not improve during the first 3 days of your treatment or if your hives last longer than 6 weeks. If you do not know the cause of your hives, call your doctor. If you are taking loratadine to treat hives, and you develop any of the following symptoms, get emergency medical help right away: difficulty swallowing, speaking, or breathing; swelling in and around the mouth or swelling of the tongue; wheezing; drooling; dizziness; or loss of consciousness. These may be symptoms of a life-threatening allergic reaction called anaphylaxis. If your doctor suspects that you may experience anaphylaxis with your hives, he may prescribe an epinephrine injector (EpiPen). Do not use loratadine in place of the epinephrine injector. Do not use this medication if the safety seal is open or torn. Other uses for this medicine This medication may be recommended for other uses; ask your doctor or pharmacist for more information. What special precautions should I follow? Before taking loratadine, tell your doctor and pharmacist if you are allergic to loratadine, any other medications, or any of the ingredients in loratadine preparations. Check the package label for a list of the ingredients. tell your doctor and pharmacist what prescription and nonprescription medications, vitamins, nutritional supplements and herbal products you are taking or plan to take. Be sure to mention medications for colds and allergies. tell your doctor if you have or have ever had asthma or kidney or liver disease. tell your doctor if you are pregnant, plan to become pregnant, or are breast-feeding. If you become pregnant while taking loratadine, call your doctor. if you have phenylketonuria (PKU, an inherited condition in which a special diet must be followed to prevent damage to your brain that can cause severe intellectual disability), you should know that some brands of the orally disintegrating tablets may contain aspartame that forms phenylalanine. What special dietary instructions should I follow? Unless your doctor tells you otherwise, continue your normal diet. What should I do if I forget a dose? Take the missed dose as soon as you remember it. However, if it is almost time for the next dose, skip the missed dose and continue your regular dosing schedule. Do not take a double dose to make up for a missed one. What side effects can this medication cause? Loratadine may cause side effects. Tell your doctor if any of these symptoms are severe or do not go away: headache dry mouth nosebleed sore throat mouth sores difficulty falling asleep or staying asleep nervousness weakness stomach pain diarrhea red or itchy eyes Some side effects may be serious. If you experience any of the following symptoms, stop taking loratadine and call your doctor immediately: rash hives itching swelling of the eyes, face, lips, tongue, throat, hands, arms, feet, ankles, or lower legs hoarseness difficulty breathing or swallowing wheezing What should I know about storage and disposal of this medication? Keep this medication in the container it came in, tightly closed, and out of reach of children. Store it at room temperature, away from excess heat and moisture (not in the bathroom)and away from light. Use the orally disintegrating tablets immediately after you remove them from the blister package, and within 6 months after you open the outer foil pouch. Write the date that you open the foil pouch on the product label so that you will know when 6 months have passed. It is important to keep all medication out of sight and reach of children as many containers (such as weekly pill minders and those for eye drops, creams, patches, and inhalers) are not child-resistant and young children can open them easily. To protect young children from poisoning, always lock safety caps and immediately place the medication in a safe location – one that is up and away and out of their sight and reach. http://www.upandaway.org Unneeded medications should be disposed of in special ways to ensure that pets, children, and other people cannot consume them. However, you should not flush this medication down the toilet. Instead, the best way to dispose of your medication is through a medicine take-back program. Talk to your pharmacist or contact your local garbage/recycling department to learn about take-back programs in your community. See the FDA's Safe Disposal of Medicines website ( http://goo.gl/c4Rm4p ) for more information if you do not have access to a take-back program. In case of emergency/overdose In case of overdose, call the poison control helpline at 1-800-222-1222. Information is also available online at https://www.poisonhelp.org/help . If the victim has collapsed, had a seizure, has trouble breathing, or can't be awakened, immediately call emergency services at 911. Symptoms of overdose may include: fast or pounding heartbeat drowsiness headache unusual body movements What other information should I know? Keep all appointments with your doctor. Ask your pharmacist any questions you have about loratadine. It is important for you to keep a written list of all of the prescription and nonprescription (over-the-counter) medicines you are taking, as well as any products such as vitamins, minerals, or other dietary supplements. You should bring this list with you each time you visit a doctor or if you are admitted to a hospital. It is also important information to carry with you in case of emergencies. Brand names Agistam ® ¶ Alavert ® Claritin ® Clear-Atadine ® ¶ Dimetapp ® ND Tavist ® Non-Sedating Wal-itin ®



[ Phenylephrine pronounced as (fen il ef' rin)  Phenylephrine is used to relieve nasal discomfort caused by colds, allergies, and hay fever. It is also used to relieve sinus congestion and pressure. Phenylephrine will relieve symptoms but will not treat the cause of the symptoms or speed recovery. Phenylephrine is in a class of medications called nasal decongestants. It works by reducing swelling of the blood vessels in the nasal passages. How should this medicine be used? Phenylephrine comes as a tablet, a liquid, or a dissolving strip to take by mouth. It is usually taken every 4 hours as needed. Follow the directions on your prescription label or the package label carefully, and ask your doctor or pharmacist to explain any part you do not understand. Take phenylephrine exactly as directed. Do not take more or less of it or take it more often than prescribed by your doctor or directed on the label. Phenylephrine comes alone and in combination with other medications. Ask your doctor or pharmacist for advice on which product is best for your symptoms. Check nonprescription cough and cold product labels carefully before using two or more products at the same time. These products may contain the same active ingredient(s) and taking them together could cause you to receive an overdose. This is especially important if you will be giving cough and cold medications to a child. Nonprescription cough and cold combination products, including products that contain phenylephrine, can cause serious side effects or death in young children. Do not give these products to children younger than 4 years of age. If you give these products to children 4 to 11 years of age, use caution and follow the package directions carefully. If you are giving phenylephrine or a combination product that contains phenylephrine to a child, read the package label carefully to be sure that it is the right product for a child of that age. Do not give phenylephrine products that are made for adults to children. Before you give a phenylephrine product to a child, check the package label to find out how much medication the child should receive. Give the dose that matches the child's age on the chart. Ask the child's doctor if you don't know how much medication to give the child. If you are taking the liquid, do not use a household spoon to measure your dose. Use the measuring spoon or cup that came with the medication or use a spoon made especially for measuring medication. If your symptoms do not get better within 7 days or if you have a fever, stop taking phenylephrine and call your doctor. If you are taking the dissolving strips, place one strip on your tongue and allow it to dissolve. Other uses for this medicine This medication may be prescribed for other uses; ask your doctor or pharmacist for more information. What special precautions should I follow? Before taking phenylephrine, tell your doctor and pharmacist if you are allergic to phenylephrine, any other medications, or any of the ingredients in phenylephrine preparations. do not take phenylephrine if you are taking a monoamine oxidase (MAO) inhibitor, such as isocarboxazid (Marplan), phenelzine (Nardil), selegiline (Eldepryl, Emsam, Zelapar), and tranylcypromine (Parnate), or if you have stopped taking one of these medications within the past 2 weeks. tell your doctor and pharmacist what other prescription and nonprescription medications, vitamins, nutritional supplements, and herbal products you are taking or plan to take. tell your doctor if you have or have ever had high blood pressure, diabetes, trouble urinating because of an enlarged prostate gland, or thyroid or heart disease. tell your doctor if you are pregnant, plan to become pregnant, or are breast-feeding. If you become pregnant while taking phenylephrine, call your doctor. if you are having surgery, including dental surgery, tell the doctor or dentist that you are taking phenylephrine. if you have phenylketonuria (PKU, an inherited condition in which a special diet must be followed to prevent damage to your brain that can cause severe intellectual disability), you should know that some phenylephrine products may be sweetened with aspartame, a source of phenylalanine. What special dietary instructions should I follow? Unless your doctor tells you otherwise, continue your normal diet. What should I do if I forget a dose? This medication is usually taken as needed. If your doctor has told you to take phenylephrine regularly, take the missed dose as soon as you remember it. However, if it is almost time for the next dose, skip the missed dose and continue your regular dosing schedule. Do not take a double dose to make up for a missed one. What side effects can this medication cause? Phenylephrine may cause side effects. Some side effects can be serious. If you experience any of these symptoms, stop using phenylephrine and call your doctor: nervousness dizziness sleeplessness Phenylephrine may cause other side effects. Call your doctor if you have any unusual problems while taking this medication. If you experience a serious side effect, you or your doctor may send a report to the Food and Drug Administration's (FDA) MedWatch Adverse Event Reporting program online ( http://www.fda.gov/Safety/MedWatch ) or by phone (1-800-332-1088). What should I know about storage and disposal of this medication? Keep this medication in the container it came in, tightly closed, and out of reach of children. Store it at room temperature and away from excess heat and moisture (not in the bathroom). It is important to keep all medication out of sight and reach of children as many containers (such as weekly pill minders and those for eye drops, creams, patches, and inhalers) are not child-resistant and young children can open them easily. To protect young children from poisoning, always lock safety caps and immediately place the medication in a safe location – one that is up and away and out of their sight and reach. http://www.upandaway.org Unneeded medications should be disposed of in special ways to ensure that pets, children, and other people cannot consume them. However, you should not flush this medication down the toilet. Instead, the best way to dispose of your medication is through a medicine take-back program. Talk to your pharmacist or contact your local garbage/recycling department to learn about take-back programs in your community. See the FDA's Safe Disposal of Medicines website ( http://goo.gl/c4Rm4p ) for more information if you do not have access to a take-back program. In case of emergency/overdose In case of overdose, call the poison control helpline at 1-800-222-1222. Information is also available online at https://www.poisonhelp.org/help . If the victim has collapsed, had a seizure, has trouble breathing, or can't be awakened, immediately call emergency services at 911. What other information should I know? Ask your pharmacist any questions you have about phenylephrine. It is important for you to keep a written list of all of the prescription and nonprescription (over-the-counter) medicines you are taking, as well as any products such as vitamins, minerals, or other dietary supplements. You should bring this list with you each time you visit a doctor or if you are admitted to a hospital. It is also important information to carry with you in case of emergencies. Brand names Children's Sudafed PE Nasal Decongestant ® Lusonal ® § PediaCare Children's Decongestant ® Sudafed PE Congestion ® Suphedrin PE ®

[ Phenylephrine pronounced as (fen il ef' rin)  Phenylephrine is used to relieve nasal discomfort caused by colds, allergies, and hay fever. It is also used to relieve sinus congestion and pressure. Phenylephrine will relieve symptoms but will not treat the cause of the symptoms or speed recovery. Phenylephrine is in a class of medications called nasal decongestants. It works by reducing swelling of the blood vessels in the nasal passages. How should this medicine be used? Phenylephrine comes as a tablet, a liquid, or a dissolving strip to take by mouth. It is usually taken every 4 hours as needed. Follow the directions on your prescription label or the package label carefully, and ask your doctor or pharmacist to explain any part you do not understand. Take phenylephrine exactly as directed. Do not take more or less of it or take it more often than prescribed by your doctor or directed on the label. Phenylephrine comes alone and in combination with other medications. Ask your doctor or pharmacist for advice on which product is best for your symptoms. Check nonprescription cough and cold product labels carefully before using two or more products at the same time. These products may contain the same active ingredient(s) and taking them together could cause you to receive an overdose. This is especially important if you will be giving cough and cold medications to a child. Nonprescription cough and cold combination products, including products that contain phenylephrine, can cause serious side effects or death in young children. Do not give these products to children younger than 4 years of age. If you give these products to children 4 to 11 years of age, use caution and follow the package directions carefully. If you are giving phenylephrine or a combination product that contains phenylephrine to a child, read the package label carefully to be sure that it is the right product for a child of that age. Do not give phenylephrine products that are made for adults to children. Before you give a phenylephrine product to a child, check the package label to find out how much medication the child should receive. Give the dose that matches the child's age on the chart. Ask the child's doctor if you don't know how much medication to give the child. If you are taking the liquid, do not use a household spoon to measure your dose. Use the measuring spoon or cup that came with the medication or use a spoon made especially for measuring medication. If your symptoms do not get better within 7 days or if you have a fever, stop taking phenylephrine and call your doctor. If you are taking the dissolving strips, place one strip on your tongue and allow it to dissolve. Other uses for this medicine This medication may be prescribed for other uses; ask your doctor or pharmacist for more information. What special precautions should I follow? Before taking phenylephrine, tell your doctor and pharmacist if you are allergic to phenylephrine, any other medications, or any of the ingredients in phenylephrine preparations. do not take phenylephrine if you are taking a monoamine oxidase (MAO) inhibitor, such as isocarboxazid (Marplan), phenelzine (Nardil), selegiline (Eldepryl, Emsam, Zelapar), and tranylcypromine (Parnate), or if you have stopped taking one of these medications within the past 2 weeks. tell your doctor and pharmacist what other prescription and nonprescription medications, vitamins, nutritional supplements, and herbal products you are taking or plan to take. tell your doctor if you have or have ever had high blood pressure, diabetes, trouble urinating because of an enlarged prostate gland, or thyroid or heart disease. tell your doctor if you are pregnant, plan to become pregnant, or are breast-feeding. If you become pregnant while taking phenylephrine, call your doctor. if you are having surgery, including dental surgery, tell the doctor or dentist that you are taking phenylephrine. if you have phenylketonuria (PKU, an inherited condition in which a special diet must be followed to prevent damage to your brain that can cause severe intellectual disability), you should know that some phenylephrine products may be sweetened with aspartame, a source of phenylalanine. What special dietary instructions should I follow? Unless your doctor tells you otherwise, continue your normal diet. What should I do if I forget a dose? This medication is usually taken as needed. If your doctor has told you to take phenylephrine regularly, take the missed dose as soon as you remember it. However, if it is almost time for the next dose, skip the missed dose and continue your regular dosing schedule. Do not take a double dose to make up for a missed one. What side effects can this medication cause? Phenylephrine may cause side effects. Some side effects can be serious. If you experience any of these symptoms, stop using phenylephrine and call your doctor: nervousness dizziness sleeplessness Phenylephrine may cause other side effects. Call your doctor if you have any unusual problems while taking this medication. If you experience a serious side effect, you or your doctor may send a report to the Food and Drug Administration's (FDA) MedWatch Adverse Event Reporting program online ( http://www.fda.gov/Safety/MedWatch ) or by phone (1-800-332-1088). What should I know about storage and disposal of this medication? Keep this medication in the container it came in, tightly closed, and out of reach of children. Store it at room temperature and away from excess heat and moisture (not in the bathroom). It is important to keep all medication out of sight and reach of children as many containers (such as weekly pill minders and those for eye drops, creams, patches, and inhalers) are not child-resistant and young children can open them easily. To protect young children from poisoning, always lock safety caps and immediately place the medication in a safe location – one that is up and away and out of their sight and reach. http://www.upandaway.org Unneeded medications should be disposed of in special ways to ensure that pets, children, and other people cannot consume them. However, you should not flush this medication down the toilet. Instead, the best way to dispose of your medication is through a medicine take-back program. Talk to your pharmacist or contact your local garbage/recycling department to learn about take-back programs in your community. See the FDA's Safe Disposal of Medicines website ( http://goo.gl/c4Rm4p ) for more information if you do not have access to a take-back program. In case of emergency/overdose In case of overdose, call the poison control helpline at 1-800-222-1222. Information is also available online at https://www.poisonhelp.org/help . If the victim has collapsed, had a seizure, has trouble breathing, or can't be awakened, immediately call emergency services at 911. What other information should I know? Ask your pharmacist any questions you have about phenylephrine. It is important for you to keep a written list of all of the prescription and nonprescription (over-the-counter) medicines you are taking, as well as any products such as vitamins, minerals, or other dietary supplements. You should bring this list with you each time you visit a doctor or if you are admitted to a hospital. It is also important information to carry with you in case of emergencies. Brand names Children's Sudafed PE Nasal Decongestant ® Lusonal ® § PediaCare Children's Decongestant ® Sudafed PE Congestion ® Suphedrin PE ®

[ Chlorpheniramine pronounced as (klor fen ir' a meen)  Chlorpheniramine relieves red, itchy, watery eyes; sneezing; itchy nose or throat; and runny nose caused by allergies, hay fever, and the common cold. Chlorpheniramine helps control the symptoms of cold or allergies but will not treat the cause of the symptoms or speed recovery. Chlorpheniramine is in a class of medications called antihistamines. It works by blocking the action of histamine, a substance in the body that causes allergic symptoms. How should this medicine be used? Chlorpheniramine comes as a tablet, a capsule, an extended-release (long-acting) tablet and capsule, a chewable tablet, and a liquid to take by mouth. The regular capsules and tablets, chewable tablets, and liquid are usually taken every 4 to 6 hours as needed. The extended-release (long-acting) tablets and capsules are usually taken twice a day in the morning and evening as needed. Follow the directions on your prescription label carefully, and ask your doctor or pharmacist to explain any part you do not understand. Take chlorpheniramine exactly as directed. Do not take more or less of it or take it more often than prescribed by your doctor. Chlorpheniramine comes alone and in combination with fever and pain reducers, expectorants, cough suppressants, and decongestants. Ask your doctor or pharmacist for advice on which product is best for your symptoms. Check nonprescription cough and cold product labels carefully before using 2 or more products at the same time. These products may contain the same active ingredient(s) and taking them together could cause you to receive an overdose.This is especially important if you will be giving cough and cold medications to a child. Nonprescription cough and cold combination products, including products that contain chlorpheniramine, can cause serious side effects or death in young children. Do not give these products to children younger than 4 years of age. If you give these products to children 4-11 years of age, use caution and follow the package directions carefully. If you are giving chlorpheniramine or a combination product that contains chlorpheniramine to a child, read the package label carefully to be sure that it is the right product for a child of that age. Do not give chlorpheniramine products that are made for adults to children. Before you give a chlorpheniramine product to a child, check the package label to find out how much medication the child should receive. Give the dose that matches the child's age on the chart. Ask the child's doctor if you don't know how much medication to give the child. If you are taking the liquid, do not use a household spoon to measure your dose. Use the measuring spoon or cup that came with the medication or use a spoon made especially for measuring medication. If you are using the extended-release tablets or capsules, swallow them whole. Do not break, crush, chew, or open them. Other uses for this medicine This medication is sometimes prescribed for other uses; ask your doctor or pharmacist for more information. What special precautions should I follow? Before taking chlorpheniramine, tell your doctor and pharmacist if you are allergic to chlorpheniramine, any other medications, or any of the ingredients in the chlorpheniramine product you plan to use. Check the package label for a list of the ingredients. tell your doctor and pharmacist what prescription and nonprescription medications, vitamins, nutritional supplements, and herbal products you are taking or plan to take. Be sure to mention any of the following: other medications for colds, hay fever, or allergies; medications for anxiety, depression, or seizures; muscle relaxants; narcotic medications for pain; sedatives; sleeping pills; and tranquilizers. tell your doctor if you have or have ever had asthma, emphysema, chronic bronchitis, or other types of lung disease; glaucoma (a condition in which increased pressure in the eye can lead to gradual loss of vision); ulcers; diabetes; difficulty urinating (due to an enlarged prostate gland); heart disease; high blood pressure; seizures; or an overactive thyroid gland. tell your doctor if you are pregnant, plan to become pregnant, or are breast-feeding. If you become pregnant while taking chlorpheniramine, call your doctor. if you are having surgery, including dental surgery, tell the doctor or dentist that you are taking chlorpheniramine. you should know that this medication may make you drowsy. Do not drive a car or operate machinery until you know how this medication affects you. ask your doctor about the safe use of alcohol while you are taking chlorpheniramine. Alcohol can make the side effects of chlorpheniramine worse. talk to your doctor about the risks and benefits of taking chlorpheniramine if you are 65 years of age or older. Older adults should not usually take chlorpheniramine because it is not as safe or effective as other medications that can be used to treat the same condition. What special dietary instructions should I follow? Unless your doctor tells you otherwise, continue your normal diet. What should I do if I forget a dose? Chlorpheniramine is usually taken as needed. If your doctor has told you to take chlorpheniramine regularly, take the missed dose as soon as you remember it. However, if it is almost time for the next dose, skip the missed dose and continue your regular dosing schedule. Do not take a double dose to make up for a missed one. What side effects can this medication cause? Chlorpheniramine may cause side effects. Tell your doctor if any of these symptoms are severe or do not go away: drowsiness dry mouth, nose, and throat nausea vomiting loss of appetite constipation headache increased chest congestion Some side effects can be serious. If you experience any of the following symptoms, call your doctor immediately: vision problems difficulty urinating If you experience a serious side effect, you or your doctor may send a report to the Food and Drug Administration's (FDA) MedWatch Adverse Event Reporting program online ( http://www.fda.gov/Safety/MedWatch ) or by phone (1-800-332-1088). What should I know about storage and disposal of this medication? Keep this medication in the container it came in, tightly closed, and out of reach of children. Store it at room temperature and away from excess heat and moisture (not in the bathroom). It is important to keep all medication out of sight and reach of children as many containers (such as weekly pill minders and those for eye drops, creams, patches, and inhalers) are not child-resistant and young children can open them easily. To protect young children from poisoning, always lock safety caps and immediately place the medication in a safe location – one that is up and away and out of their sight and reach. http://www.upandaway.org Unneeded medications should be disposed of in special ways to ensure that pets, children, and other people cannot consume them. However, you should not flush this medication down the toilet. Instead, the best way to dispose of your medication is through a medicine take-back program. Talk to your pharmacist or contact your local garbage/recycling department to learn about take-back programs in your community. See the FDA's Safe Disposal of Medicines website ( http://goo.gl/c4Rm4p ) for more information if you do not have access to a take-back program. In case of emergency/overdose In case of overdose, call the poison control helpline at 1-800-222-1222. Information is also available online at https://www.poisonhelp.org/help . If the victim has collapsed, had a seizure, has trouble breathing, or can't be awakened, immediately call emergency services at 911. What other information should I know? Ask your pharmacist any questions you have about chlorpheniramine. It is important for you to keep a written list of all of the prescription and nonprescription (over-the-counter) medicines you are taking, as well as any products such as vitamins, minerals, or other dietary supplements. You should bring this list with you each time you visit a doctor or if you are admitted to a hospital. It is also important information to carry with you in case of emergencies. Brand names Aller-Chlor ® Aller-Chlor ® Syrup Chlo-Amine ® Chlor-Trimeton ® 12 Hour Allergy Chlor-Trimeton ® 4 Hour Allergy Chlor-Trimeton ® 8 Hour Allergy Chlor-Trimeton ® Allergy Syrup Polaramine ® Polaramine ® Repetabs ® Polaramine ® Syrup Teldrin ® Allergy





[ Fluoride pronounced as (floor' ide) To use the sharing features on this page, please enable JavaScript. Why is this medication prescribed? How should this medicine be used? What special precautions should I follow? What special dietary instructions should I follow? What should I do if I forget a dose? What side effects can this medication cause? What should I know about storage and disposal of this medication? In case of emergency/overdose What other information should I know? Brand names Why is this medication prescribed? Fluoride is used to prevent tooth decay. It is taken up by teeth and helps to strengthen teeth, resist acid, and block the cavity-forming action of bacteria. Fluoride usually is prescribed for children and adults whose homes have water that is not fluoridated (already has fluoride added). This medication is sometimes prescribed for other uses; ask your doctor or pharmacist for more information. How should this medicine be used? Fluoride comes as a liquid, tablet, and chewable tablet to take by mouth. It usually is taken once daily. Follow the directions on your prescription label carefully, and ask your doctor or pharmacist to explain any part you do not understand. Take fluoride exactly as directed. Do not take more or less of it or take it more often than prescribed by your doctor. The fluoride liquid may be taken straight from the bottle or mixed with cereal, fruit juice, or other foods. Use a dropper or an oral syringe to measure out your dose. Tablets may be dissolved in the mouth, chewed, or added to drinking water or fruit juice. Tablets also may be added to water for use in infant formulas or other food. Fluoride helps to strengthen teeth and prevent cavities; it is not a substitute for brushing or flossing. What special precautions should I follow? Before taking fluoride, tell your doctor and pharmacist if you are allergic to fluoride, tartrazine (a yellow dye in some processed foods and drugs), or any other drugs. tell your doctor and pharmacist what prescription and nonprescription medications you are taking, especially vitamins. Do not take calcium, magnesium, or iron supplements while taking fluoride without checking with your doctor. tell your doctor if you are pregnant, plan to become pregnant, or are breast-feeding. If you become pregnant while taking fluoride, call your doctor. tell your doctor if you are on a low-sodium or sodium-free diet. What special dietary instructions should I follow? Do not eat or drink dairy products 1 hour before or 1 hour after taking fluoride. What should I do if I forget a dose? Take the missed dose as soon as you remember it. However, if it is almost time for the next dose, skip the missed dose and continue your regular dosing schedule. Do not take a double dose to make up for a missed one. What side effects can this medication cause? Fluoride may cause side effects. Tell your doctor if this symptom is severe or does not go away: staining of teeth If you experience any of the following symptoms, call your doctor immediately: unusual increase in saliva salty or soapy taste stomach pain upset stomach vomiting diarrhea rash weakness tremor seizures If you experience a serious side effect, you or your doctor may send a report to the Food and Drug Administration's (FDA) MedWatch Adverse Event Reporting program online ( http://www.fda.gov/Safety/MedWatch ) or by phone (1-800-332-1088). What should I know about storage and disposal of this medication? Keep this medication in the container it came in, tightly closed, and out of reach of children. Store it at room temperature and away from excess heat and moisture (not in the bathroom). It is important to keep all medication out of sight and reach of children as many containers (such as weekly pill minders and those for eye drops, creams, patches, and inhalers) are not child-resistant and young children can open them easily. To protect young children from poisoning, always lock safety caps and immediately place the medication in a safe location – one that is up and away and out of their sight and reach. http://www.upandaway.org Unneeded medications should be disposed of in special ways to ensure that pets, children, and other people cannot consume them. However, you should not flush this medication down the toilet. Instead, the best way to dispose of your medication is through a medicine take-back program. Talk to your pharmacist or contact your local garbage/recycling department to learn about take-back programs in your community. See the FDA's Safe Disposal of Medicines website ( http://goo.gl/c4Rm4p ) for more information if you do not have access to a take-back program. In case of emergency/overdose In case of overdose, call the poison control helpline at 1-800-222-1222. Information is also available online at https://www.poisonhelp.org/help . If the victim has collapsed, had a seizure, has trouble breathing, or can't be awakened, immediately call emergency services at 911. What other information should I know? Keep all appointments with your doctor. Do not let anyone else take your medication. Ask your pharmacist any questions you have about refilling your prescription. It is important for you to keep a written list of all of the prescription and nonprescription (over-the-counter) medicines you are taking, as well as any products such as vitamins, minerals, or other dietary supplements. You should bring this list with you each time you visit a doctor or if you are admitted to a hospital. It is also important information to carry with you in case of emergencies. Brand names ACT ® Advance White ® Aim ® AmerFresh ® AquaFresh ® Charm-Tex ® Clinpro 5000 ® Close Up ® Colgate ® Control Rx ® Crest ® Darby ® Dawn Mist ® Denti-Care ® Epiflur ® Fluor-a-Day ® FluoriSHIELD ® Gelato ® Glister ® Kolorz ® Listerine ® Ludent ® Mentadent ® Opalescence ® Oral Defense ® Oral-B ® Ora-Line ® Ortho Guard ® Pepsodent ® Peroxi-Care ® Pro-Den Rx ® Simply White ® Vortex ® Whole Care ® Xylishield ® Zooby ®



[ Guaifenesin pronounced as (gwye fen' e sin)  Guaifenesin is used to relieve chest congestion. Guaifenesin may help control symptoms but does not treat the cause of symptoms or speed recovery. Guaifenesin is in a class of medications called expectorants. It works by thinning the mucus in the air passages to make it easier to cough up the mucus and clear the airways. How should this medicine be used? Guaifenesin comes as a tablet, a capsule, an extended-release (long-acting) tablet, dissolving granules, and a syrup (liquid) to take by mouth. The tablets, capsules, dissolving granules, and syrup are usually taken with or without food every 4 hours as needed. The extended-release tablet is usually taken with or without food every 12 hours. Follow the directions on the package or on your prescription label carefully, and ask your doctor or pharmacist to explain any part you do not understand. Take guaifenesin exactly as directed. Do not take more or less of it or take it more often than prescribed by your doctor. Guaifenesin comes alone and in combination with antihistamines, cough suppressants, and decongestants. Ask your doctor or pharmacist for advice on which product is best for your symptoms. Check nonprescription cough and cold product labels carefully before using two or more products at the same time. These products may contain the same active ingredient(s) and taking them together could cause you to receive an overdose. This is especially important if you will be giving cough and cold medications to a child. Nonprescription cough and cold combination products, including products that contain guaifenesin, can cause serious side effects or death in young children. Do not give these products to children younger than 4 years of age. If you give these products to children 4 to 11 years of age, use caution and follow the package directions carefully. If you are giving guaifenesin or a combination product that contains guaifenesin to a child, read the package label carefully to be sure that it is the right product for a child of that age. Do not give guaifenesin products that are made for adults to children. Before you give a guaifenesin product to a child, check the package label to find out how much medication the child should receive. Give the dose that matches the child's age on the chart. Ask the child's doctor if you don't know how much medication to give the child. If you are taking the liquid, do not use a household spoon to measure your dose. Use the measuring spoon or cup that came with the medication or use a spoon made especially for measuring medication. Swallow the extended-release tablets whole with a full glass of water. Do not break, crush, or chew them. If you are taking the dissolving granules, empty the entire contents of the packet onto your tongue and swallow. If your symptoms do not improve within 7 days or if you also have a high fever, a rash, or a headache that does not go away, call your doctor. Other uses for this medicine This medication is sometimes prescribed for other uses; ask your doctor or pharmacist for more information. What special precautions should I follow? Before taking guaifenesin, tell your doctor and pharmacist if you are allergic to guaifenesin, any other medications, or any of the ingredients in the guaifenesin product you plan to take. Check the package label for a list of the ingredients. tell your doctor and pharmacist what prescription and nonprescription medications, vitamins, nutritional supplements, and herbal products you are taking or plan to take. tell your doctor if you smoke and if you have or have ever had a cough that occurs with a large amount of phlegm (mucus) or if you have or have ever had a breathing problem such as asthma, emphysema, or chronic bronchitis. If you will be taking the dissolving granules, tell your doctor if you are on a low magnesium diet or if you have kidney disease. tell your doctor if you are pregnant, plan to become pregnant, or are breast-feeding. If you become pregnant while taking guaifenesin, call your doctor. if you have phenylketonuria (PKU, a inherited condition in which a special diet must be followed to prevent damage to your brain that can cause severe intellectual disability), you should know that the dissolving granules may be sweetened with aspartame, a source of phenylalanine. What special dietary instructions should I follow? Drink plenty of fluids while you are taking this medication. Unless your doctor tells you otherwise, continue your normal diet. What should I do if I forget a dose? Guaifenesin is usually taken as needed. If your doctor has told you to take guaifenesin regularly, take the missed dose as soon as you remember it. However, if it is almost time for the next dose, skip the missed dose and continue your regular dosing schedule. Do not take a double dose to make up for a missed one. What side effects can this medication cause? Guaifenesin may cause side effects. Tell your doctor if any of these symptoms are severe or do not go away: headache nausea vomiting Guaifenesin may cause other side effects. Call your doctor if you have any unusual problems while you are taking this medication. If you experience a serious side effect, you or your doctor may send a report to the Food and Drug Administration's (FDA) MedWatch Adverse Event Reporting program online ( http://www.fda.gov/Safety/MedWatch ) or by phone (1-800-332-1088). What should I know about storage and disposal of this medication? Keep this medication in the container it came in, tightly closed, and out of reach of children. Store it at room temperature and away from excess heat and moisture (not in the bathroom). Unneeded medications should be disposed of in special ways to ensure that pets, children, and other people cannot consume them. However, you should not flush this medication down the toilet. Instead, the best way to dispose of your medication is through a medicine take-back program. Talk to your pharmacist or contact your local garbage/recycling department to learn about take-back programs in your community. See the FDA's Safe Disposal of Medicines website ( http://goo.gl/c4Rm4p ) for more information if you do not have access to a take-back program. It is important to keep all medication out of sight and reach of children as many containers (such as weekly pill minders and those for eye drops, creams, patches, and inhalers) are not child-resistant and young children can open them easily. To protect young children from poisoning, always lock safety caps and immediately place the medication in a safe location – one that is up and away and out of their sight and reach. http://www.upandaway.org In case of emergency/overdose In case of overdose, call the poison control helpline at 1-800-222-1222. Information is also available online at https://www.poisonhelp.org/help . If the victim has collapsed, had a seizure, has trouble breathing, or can't be awakened, immediately call emergency services at 911. What other information should I know? Ask your pharmacist any questions you have about guaifenesin. It is important for you to keep a written list of all of the prescription and nonprescription (over-the-counter) medicines you are taking, as well as any products such as vitamins, minerals, or other dietary supplements. You should bring this list with you each time you visit a doctor or if you are admitted to a hospital. It is also important information to carry with you in case of emergencies. Brand names Adult Tussin ® Air Power ® Bronchoril ® Chest Congestion ® Childrens Mucinex ® Childrens Mucus Relief ® Cough Out ® Diabetic Siltussin DAS-Na ® Diabetic Tussin Expectorant ® Diabetic Tussin Mucus Relief ® Equaline Tussin ® Equate Tussin ® Good Neighbor Pharmacy Tussin ® Good Sense Tussin ® Guiatuss ® Iophen NR ® Kids-EEZE ® Leader Adult Tussin ® Leader Mucus Relief ® Liqufruta ® Little Remedies Little Colds Mucus Relief Expectorant Melt Aways ® MucaPlex ® Mucinex ® Mucinex for Kids ® Mucus Relief ® Mucus Relief Chest ® ORGAN-I NR ® Premier Value Chest Congestion Relief ® Q-Tussin ® Refenesen ® Chest Congestion Relief Robitussin ® Chest Congestion Scot-Tussin ® Expectorant SF Cough SelectHealth Tussin DM ® Siltussin DAS ® Siltussin SA ® Smart Sense Tussin ® Sunmark Tussin ® Topcare Mucus Relief ® Topcare Tussin ® Tussin ® Tussin Chest ® Tussin Chest Congestion ® Tussin Original ® Up and Up Childrens Mucus Relief ® Vicks ® DayQuil ® Wal Tussin ®







[ Prednisolone Ophthalmic pronounced as (pred niss' oh lone) To use the sharing features on this page, please enable JavaScript. Why is this medication prescribed? How should this medicine be used? Other uses for this medicine What special precautions should I follow? What should I do if I forget a dose? What side effects can this medication cause? What should I know about storage and disposal of this medication? What other information should I know? Brand names Why is this medication prescribed? Ophthalmic prednisolone reduces the irritation, redness, burning, and swelling of eye inflammation caused by chemicals, heat, radiation, infection, allergy, or foreign bodies in the eye. It sometimes is used after eye surgery. Prednisolone is in a class of medications called steroids. It prevents swelling and redness by changing the way the immune system works. How should this medicine be used? Ophthalmic prednisolone comes as a solution (liquid) and a suspension (eye drops) to instill in the eye and as an eye ointment to apply to the eye. Follow the directions on your prescription label carefully, and ask your doctor or pharmacist to explain any part you do not understand. Use prednisolone eye drops or eye ointment exactly as directed. Do not use more or less of it or use it more often than prescribed by your doctor. Continue to use prednisolone eye drops or eye ointment even if you feel well. Do not stop using prednisolone eye drops or eye ointment without talking to your doctor. To use the eye drops, follow these instructions: Wash your hands thoroughly with soap and water. Check the label on your bottle to see if you should shake the eye drops before using. Shake the bottle well if the label says that you should Check the dropper tip to make sure that it is not chipped or cracked. Avoid touching the dropper tip against your eye or anything else; eye drops and droppers must be kept clean. While tilting your head back, pull down the lower lid of your eye with your index finger to form a pocket. Hold the dropper (tip down) with the other hand, as close to the eye as possible without touching it. Brace the remaining fingers of that hand against your face. While looking up, gently squeeze the dropper so that a single drop falls into the pocket made by the lower eyelid. Remove your index finger from the lower eyelid. Close your eye for 2 to 3 minutes and tip your head down as though looking at the floor. Try not to blink or squeeze your eyelids. Place a finger on the tear duct and apply gentle pressure. Wipe any excess liquid from your face with a tissue. If you are to use more than one drop in the same eye, wait at least 5 minutes before instilling the next drop. Replace and tighten the cap on the dropper bottle. Do not wipe or rinse the dropper tip. Wash your hands to remove any medication. Toapply the eye ointment, follow these steps: Wash your hands thoroughly with soap and water. Use a mirror or have someone else apply the ointment. Avoid touching the tip of the tube against your eye or anything else. The ointment must be kept clean. Tilt your head forward slightly. Holding the tube between your thumb and index finger, place the tube as near as possible to your eyelid without touching it. Brace the remaining fingers of that hand against your cheek or nose. With the index finger of your other hand, pull the lower lid of your eye down to form a pocket. Place a small amount of ointment into the pocket made by the lower lid and the eye. A 1/2-inch (1.25-centimeter) strip of ointment usually is enough unless otherwise directed by your doctor. Gently close your eyes and keep them closed for 1 to 2 minutes to allow the medication to be absorbed. Replace and tighten the cap right away. Wipe off any excess ointment from your eyelids and lashes with a clean tissue. Wash your hands again. Your vision may be blurry for a short amount of time after using the eye ointment. Wait until you can see normally before you drive or do other activities that require good vision. Other uses for this medicine This medication is sometimes prescribed for other uses; ask your doctor or pharmacist for more information. What special precautions should I follow? Before using prednisolone eye drops or eye ointment, tell your doctor and pharmacist if you are allergic to prednisolone or any other drugs. tell your doctor and pharmacist what prescription and nonprescription medications you are taking, including vitamins. tell your doctor if you have or have ever had glaucoma or diabetes. tell your doctor if you are pregnant, plan to become pregnant, or are breast-feeding. If you become pregnant while using prednisolone eye drops or eye ointment, call your doctor immediately. What should I do if I forget a dose? Instill or apply the missed dose as soon as you remember it. Use any remaining doses for that day at evenly spaced intervals. However, if you remember a missed dose at the time the next one is due, use only the regularly scheduled dose. Do not instill or apply a double dose to make up for a missed one. What side effects can this medication cause? Prednisolone eye drops and eye ointment may cause side effects. Tell your doctor if any of these symptoms are severe or do not go away: temporary eye burning or stinging temporary blurred vision Some side effects can be serious. If you experience the following symptom, call your doctor immediately: eye pain If you experience a serious side effect, you or your doctor may send a report to the Food and Drug Administration's (FDA) MedWatch Adverse Event Reporting program online ( http://www.fda.gov/Safety/MedWatch ) or by phone (1-800-332-1088). What should I know about storage and disposal of this medication? Keep this medication in the container it came in, tightly closed, and out of reach of children. Store it at room temperature and away from excess heat and moisture (not in the bathroom). It is important to keep all medication out of sight and reach of children as many containers (such as weekly pill minders and those for eye drops, creams, patches, and inhalers) are not child-resistant and young children can open them easily. To protect young children from poisoning, always lock safety caps and immediately place the medication in a safe location – one that is up and away and out of their sight and reach. http://www.upandaway.org Unneeded medications should be disposed of in special ways to ensure that pets, children, and other people cannot consume them. However, you should not flush this medication down the toilet. Instead, the best way to dispose of your medication is through a medicine take-back program. Talk to your pharmacist or contact your local garbage/recycling department to learn about take-back programs in your community. See the FDA's Safe Disposal of Medicines website ( http://goo.gl/c4Rm4p ) for more information if you do not have access to a take-back program. What other information should I know? Keep all appointments with your doctor. Do not let anyone else use your medication. Ask your pharmacist any questions you have about refilling your prescription. If you still have symptoms of eye irritation after you finish the prednisolone eye drops or eye ointment, call your doctor. It is important for you to keep a written list of all of the prescription and nonprescription (over-the-counter) medicines you are taking, as well as any products such as vitamins, minerals, or other dietary supplements. You should bring this list with you each time you visit a doctor or if you are admitted to a hospital. It is also important information to carry with you in case of emergencies. Brand names AK-Pred ® Econopred ® ¶ Inflamase ® Forte ¶ Inflamase ® Mild ¶ Omnipred ® ¶ Pred Forte ® Pred Mild ®

[ Sulfacetamide Ophthalmic pronounced as (sul fa see' ta mide) To use the sharing features on this page, please enable JavaScript. Why is this medication prescribed? How should this medicine be used? Other uses for this medicine What special precautions should I follow? What should I do if I forget a dose? What side effects can this medication cause? What should I know about storage and disposal of this medication? What other information should I know? Brand names Why is this medication prescribed? Ophthalmic sulfacetamide stops the growth of bacteria that cause certain eye infections. It is used to treat eye infections and to prevent them after injuries. How should this medicine be used? Ophthalmic sulfacetamide comes as a solution (liquid) to instill in the eyes, and an ointment to apply to the eyes. The eye drops usually are instilled every 2 to 3 hours during the day and less frequently at night; the ointment usually is applied four times a day and at bedtime. Follow the directions on your prescription label carefully, and ask your doctor or pharmacist to explain any part you do not understand. Use sulfacetamide exactly as directed. Do not use more or less of it or use it more often than prescribed by your doctor. To instill the eye drops, follow these steps: Wash your hands thoroughly with soap and water. Check the dropper tip to make sure that it is not chipped or cracked. Avoid touching the dropper tip against your eye or anything else; eye drops and droppers must be kept clean. While tilting your head back, pull down the lower lid of your eye with your index finger to form a pocket. Hold the dropper (tip down) with the other hand, as close to the eye as possible without touching it. Brace the remaining fingers of that hand against your face. While looking up, gently squeeze the dropper so that a single drop falls into the pocket made by the lower eyelid. Remove your index finger from the lower eyelid. Close your eye for 2 to 3 minutes and tip your head down as though looking at the floor. Try not to blink or squeeze your eyelids. Place a finger on the tear duct and apply gentle pressure. Wipe any excess liquid from your face with a tissue. If you are to use more than one drop in the same eye, wait at least 5 minutes before instilling the next drop. Replace and tighten the cap on the dropper bottle. Do not wipe or rinse the dropper tip. Wash your hands to remove any medication. To apply the eye ointment, follow these instructions: Wash your hands thoroughly with soap and water. Avoid touching the tip of the tube against your eye or anything else; the tube tip must be kept clean. Holding the tube between your thumb and forefinger, place it as near to your eyelid as possible without touching it. Brace the remaining fingers of that hand against your face. Tilt your head backward slightly. With your index finger, pull the lower eyelid down to form a pocket. Squeeze a 1/4- to 1/2-inch (0.6- to 1.25-centimeter) ribbon of ointment into the pocket made by the lower eyelid. Remove your index finger from the lower eyelid. Blink your eye slowly; then gently close your eye for 1 to 2 minutes. With a tissue, wipe any excess ointment from the eyelids and lashes. With another clean tissue, wipe the tip of the tube clean. Replace and tighten the cap right away. Wash your hands to remove any medication. Other uses for this medicine This medication is sometimes prescribed for other uses; ask your doctor or pharmacist for more information. What special precautions should I follow? Before using sulfacetamide eye drops or eye ointment, tell your doctor and pharmacist if you are allergic to sulfacetamide, sulfa drugs, sulfites, or any other drugs. tell your doctor and pharmacist what prescription and nonprescription medications, vitamins, nutritional supplements, and herbal products you are taking or plan to take while using sulfacetamide eye drops or eye ointment. Your doctor may need to change the doses of your medications or monitor you carefully for side effects.. tell your doctor if you are pregnant, plan to become pregnant, or are breast-feeding. If you become pregnant while using sulfacetamide, call your doctor immediately. you should know that your vision may be blurred during your treatment with sulfacetamide eye ointment. Avoid rubbing your eyes even if your vision is blurred. Do not drive a car or operate machinery if you are unable to see clearly. tell your doctor if you wear soft contact lenses. If the brand of sulfacetamide you are using contains benzalkonium chloride, wait at least 15 minutes after using the medicine to put in soft contact lenses. What should I do if I forget a dose? Instill or apply the missed dose as soon as you remember it. However, if it is almost time for the next dose, skip the missed dose and continue your regular dosing schedule. Do not instill or apply a double dose to make up for a missed one. What side effects can this medication cause? Sulfacetamide may cause side effects. Tell your doctor if any of these symptoms are severe or do not go away: temporary stinging or burning of the eye increased redness, itching, or swelling of the eye that continues for more than 48 hours What should I know about storage and disposal of this medication? Keep this medication in the container it came in, tightly closed, and out of the reach of children. Store it at room temperature and away from excess heat and moisture (not in the bathroom). Do not let it freeze and do not use discolored eye drops (yellowish brown to deep reddish brown). Unneeded medications should be disposed of in special ways to ensure that pets, children, and other people cannot consume them. However, you should not flush this medication down the toilet. Instead, the best way to dispose of your medication is through a medicine take-back program. Talk to your pharmacist or contact your local garbage/recycling department to learn about take-back programs in your community. See the FDA's Safe Disposal of Medicines website ( http://goo.gl/c4Rm4p ) for more information if you do not have access to a take-back program. It is important to keep all medication out of sight and reach of children as many containers (such as weekly pill minders and those for eye drops, creams, patches, and inhalers) are not child-resistant and young children can open them easily. To protect young children from poisoning, always lock safety caps and immediately place the medication in a safe location – one that is up and away and out of their sight and reach. http://www.upandaway.org What other information should I know? Keep all appointments with your doctor. Do not let anyone else use your medication. Ask your pharmacist any questions you have about refilling your prescription. If you still have symptoms of infection after you finish the sulfacetamide, call your doctor. It is important for you to keep a written list of all of the prescription and nonprescription (over-the-counter) medicines you are taking, as well as any products such as vitamins, minerals, or other dietary supplements. You should bring this list with you each time you visit a doctor or if you are admitted to a hospital. It is also important information to carry with you in case of emergencies. Brand names AK-Sulf ¶ Bleph-10 ® Bleph-30 ® Cetamide ® Sodium Sulamyd ®

[ Tobramycin Ophthalmic pronounced as (toe bra mye' sin) To use the sharing features on this page, please enable JavaScript. Why is this medication prescribed? How should this medicine be used? Other uses for this medicine What special precautions should I follow? What special dietary instructions should I follow? What should I do if I forget a dose? What side effects can this medication cause? What should I know about storage and disposal of this medication? What other information should I know? Brand names Why is this medication prescribed? Ophthalmic tobramycin is used to treat eye infections. Tobramycin is in a class of medications called antibiotics. It works by killing bacteria that cause infections. How should this medicine be used? Ophthalmic tobramycin comes as as a solution (liquid) to instill in the eyes and as an eye ointment to apply to the eyes. The eye drops are usually applied every 4 to 8 hours and the ointment is usually applied two to four times a day. Follow the directions on your prescription label carefully, and ask your doctor or pharmacist to explain any part you do not understand. Use tobramycin eye drops or ointment exactly as directed. Do not use more or less of it or use it more often than prescribed by your doctor. To instill the eye drops, follow these steps: Wash your hands thoroughly with soap and water. Check the dropper tip to make sure that it is not chipped or cracked. Avoid touching the dropper tip against your eye or anything else; eye drops and droppers must be kept clean. While tilting your head back, pull down the lower lid of your eye with your index finger to form a pocket. Hold the dropper (tip down) with the other hand, as close to the eye as possible without touching it. Brace the remaining fingers of that hand against your face. While looking up, gently squeeze the dropper so that a single drop falls into the pocket made by the lower eyelid. Remove your index finger from the lower eyelid. Close your eye for 2 to 3 minutes and tip your head down as though looking at the floor. Try not to blink or squeeze your eyelids. Place a finger on the tear duct and apply gentle pressure. Wipe any excess liquid from your face with a tissue. If you are to use more than one drop in the same eye, wait at least 5 minutes before instilling the next drop. Replace and tighten the cap on the dropper bottle. Do not wipe or rinse the dropper tip. Wash your hands to remove any medication. To use the eye ointment, follow these instructions: Wash your hands thoroughly with soap and water. Use a mirror or have someone else apply the ointment. Avoid touching the tip of the tube against your eye or anything else. The ointment must be kept clean. Tilt your head forward slightly. Holding the tube between your thumb and index finger, place the tube as near as possible to your eyelid without touching it. Brace the remaining fingers of that hand against your cheek or nose. With the index finger of your other hand, pull the lower lid of your eye down to form a pocket. Place a small amount of ointment into the pocket made by the lower lid and the eye. A 1/2-inch (1.25-centimeter) strip of ointment usually is enough unless otherwise directed by your doctor. Look downward, then gently close your eyes and keep them closed for 1 to 2 minutes to allow the medication to be absorbed. Replace and tighten the cap right away. Wipe off any excess ointment from your eyelids and lashes with a clean tissue. Wash your hands again. Other uses for this medicine This medication may be prescribed for other uses. Ask your doctor or pharmacist for more information. What special precautions should I follow? Before using tobramycin eye drops or eye ointment, tell your doctor and pharmacist if you are allergic to tobramycin, other antibiotics, or any other drugs. tell your doctor and pharmacist what prescription and nonprescription medications you are taking, especially other eye medications and vitamins. tell your doctor if you are pregnant, plan to become pregnant, or are breast-feeding. If you become pregnant while using tobramycin eye drops or eye ointment, call your doctor immediately. you should know that your vision may be blurred during your treatment with tobramycin eye ointment. Avoid rubbing your eyes even if your vision is blurred. Do not drive a car or operate machinery if you are unable to see clearly. tell your doctor if you wear soft contact lenses. You should not wear contact lenses if you have any eye infection. What special dietary instructions should I follow? Unless your doctor tells you otherwise, continue your normal diet. What should I do if I forget a dose? Instill or apply the missed dose as soon as you remember it. However, if it is almost time for the next dose, skip the missed dose and continue your regular dosing schedule. Do not instill or apply a double dose to make up for a missed one. What side effects can this medication cause? Tobramycin eye drops or ointment may cause side effects. Tell your doctor if any of these symptoms are severe or do not go away: eye tearing itching, stinging, or burning of the eye swelling of the eye temporary blurred vision (from the ointment) What should I know about storage and disposal of this medication? Keep this medication in the container it came in, tightly closed, and out of reach of children. Store it at room temperature and away from excess heat and moisture (not in the bathroom). Unneeded medications should be disposed of in special ways to ensure that pets, children, and other people cannot consume them. However, you should not flush this medication down the toilet. Instead, the best way to dispose of your medication is through a medicine take-back program. Talk to your pharmacist or contact your local garbage/recycling department to learn about take-back programs in your community. See the FDA's Safe Disposal of Medicines website ( http://goo.gl/c4Rm4p ) for more information if you do not have access to a take-back program. It is important to keep all medication out of sight and reach of children as many containers (such as weekly pill minders and those for eye drops, creams, patches, and inhalers) are not child-resistant and young children can open them easily. To protect young children from poisoning, always lock safety caps and immediately place the medication in a safe location – one that is up and away and out of their sight and reach. http://www.upandaway.org What other information should I know? Keep all appointments with your doctor. Do not let anyone else use your medication. Ask your pharmacist any questions you have about refilling your prescription. If you still have symptoms of infection after you finish the tobramycin eye drops or ointment, call your doctor. It is important for you to keep a written list of all of the prescription and nonprescription (over-the-counter) medicines you are taking, as well as any products such as vitamins, minerals, or other dietary supplements. You should bring this list with you each time you visit a doctor or if you are admitted to a hospital. It is also important information to carry with you in case of emergencies. Brand names AK-Tob ® Tobrex ®

















[ Hydrocortisone Topical pronounced as (hye droe kor' ti sone)  Hydrocortisone topical is used to treat redness, swelling, itching, and discomfort of various skin conditions. Hydrocortisone is in a class of medications called corticosteroids. It works by activating natural substances in the skin to reduce swelling, redness, and itching. How should this medicine be used? Hydrocortisone comes as ointment, cream, solution (liquid), spray, or lotion for use on the skin. Hydrocortisone topical is usually used one to four times a day for skin problems. Apply it at around the same time(s) every day. Follow the directions on your prescription or product label carefully, and ask your doctor or pharmacist to explain any part you do not understand. Use hydrocortisone exactly as directed. Do not apply more or less of it or apply it more often than prescribed by your doctor. Do not apply it to other areas of your body or use it to treat other skin conditions unless directed to do so by your doctor. If your doctor has prescribed hydrocortisone for your condition, call your doctor if your symptoms do not improve in the first 2 weeks of your treatment. If you obtained hydrocortisone without a prescription (over the counter) and your condition does not improve within 7 days, stop using it and call your doctor. To use hydrocortisone topical, apply a small amount of ointment, cream, solution, spray, or lotion to cover the affected area of skin with a thin even film and rub it in gently. This medication is only for use on the skin. Do not let hydrocortisone topical get into your eyes or mouth and do not swallow it. Do not wrap or bandage the treated area unless your doctor tells you that you should. If you have psoriasis, your doctor may recommend an occlusive dressing. If you are applying hydrocortisone topical to a child's diaper area, do not cover the area with tight fitting diapers or plastic pants. Other uses for this medicine This medication may be prescribed for other uses; ask your doctor or pharmacist for more information. What special precautions should I follow? Before using hydrocortisone topical, tell your doctor and pharmacist if you are allergic to hydrocortisone, any other medications, or any of the ingredients in hydrocortisone topical products. Ask your pharmacist for a list of the ingredients. tell your doctor if you have or have ever had diabetes or Cushing's syndrome (an abnormal condition that is caused by excess hormones [corticosteroids]). tell your doctor if you are pregnant, plan to become pregnant, or are breastfeeding. If you become pregnant while using hydrocortisone topical, call your doctor. What special dietary instructions should I follow? Unless your doctor tells you otherwise, continue your normal diet. What should I do if I forget a dose? Apply the missed dose as soon as you remember it. However, if it is almost time for the next dose, skip the missed dose and continue your regular dosing schedule. Do not apply a double amount to make up for a missed dose. What side effects can this medication cause? Hydrocortisone topical may cause side effects. Tell your doctor if any of these symptoms are severe or do not go away: burning, itching, irritation, redness, or dryness of the skin acne unwanted hair growth skin color changes tiny red bumps or rash around the mouth small white or red bumps on the skin Some side effects can be serious. If you experience any of these symptoms, call your doctor immediately: severe rash redness, swelling, or other signs of skin infection in the place where you applied hydrocortisone Children who use hydrocortisone topical may have an increased risk of side effects including slowed growth and delayed weight gain. Talk to your child's doctor about the risks of applying this medication to your child's skin. Hydrocortisone topical may cause other side effects. Call your doctor if you have any unusual problems while using this medication. If you experience a serious side effect, you or your doctor may send a report to the Food and Drug Administration's (FDA) MedWatch Adverse Event Reporting program online ( http://www.fda.gov/Safety/MedWatch ) or by phone (1-800-332-1088). What should I know about storage and disposal of this medication? Keep this medication in the container it came in, tightly closed, and out of reach of children. Store it at room temperature and away from excess heat and moisture (not in the bathroom). Do not freeze it. Unneeded medications should be disposed of in special ways to ensure that pets, children, and other people cannot consume them. However, you should not flush this medication down the toilet. Instead, the best way to dispose of your medication is through a medicine take-back program. Talk to your pharmacist or contact your local garbage/recycling department to learn about take-back programs in your community. See the FDA's Safe Disposal of Medicines website ( http://goo.gl/c4Rm4p ) for more information if you do not have access to a take-back program. It is important to keep all medication out of sight and reach of children as many containers (such as weekly pill minders and those for eye drops, creams, patches, and inhalers) are not child-resistant and young children can open them easily. To protect young children from poisoning, always lock safety caps and immediately place the medication in a safe location – one that is up and away and out of their sight and reach. http://www.upandaway.org In case of emergency/overdose If someone swallows hydrocortisone, call your local poison control center at 1-800-222-1222. If the victim has collapsed or is not breathing, call local emergency services at 911. What other information should I know? Keep all appointments with your doctor. Ask your pharmacist any questions you have about hydrocortisone topical. It is important for you to keep a written list of all of the prescription and nonprescription (over-the-counter) medicines you are taking, as well as any products such as vitamins, minerals, or other dietary supplements. You should bring this list with you each time you visit a doctor or if you are admitted to a hospital. It is also important information to carry with you in case of emergencies. Brand names Ala-Cort ® Ala-Scalp ® Anusol HC ® Cortizone 10 ® Cortizone 10 ® Quick Shot Anti-Itch Spray Dermacort ® ¶ Dermasorb ® HC Hyderm ® Locoid ® Micort-HC ® Neosporin ® Eczema Essentials Nutracort ® Pandel ® Proctocort ® Cream ¶ Stie-Cort ® Synacort ® Texacort ®

[ Brompheniramine pronounced as (brome fen ir' a meen)  Brompheniramine relieves red, irritated, itchy, watery eyes; sneezing; and runny nose caused by allergies, hay fever, and the common cold. Brompheniramine helps control symptoms, but does not treat the cause of the symptoms or speed recovery. Brompheniramine should not be used to cause sleepiness in children. Brompheniramine is in a class of medications called antihistamines. It works by blocking the action of histamine, a substance in the body that causes allergic symptoms. How should this medicine be used? Brompheniramine comes in combination with other cough and cold medications as a chewable tablet, an extended-release (long-acting) capsule, an extended-release (long-acting) tablet, and a liquid to be taken by mouth. The chewable tablet and liquid are usually taken every 4 to 6 hours as needed. The extended-release tablets and capsules are usually taken every 8 or 12 hours as needed. Follow the directions on the package label or on your prescription label carefully, and ask your doctor or pharmacist to explain any part you do not understand. Take brompheniramine exactly as directed. Do not take more or less of it or take it more often than directed by the package label or prescribed by your doctor. Brompheniramine comes in combination with other cough and cold medications. Ask your doctor or pharmacist for advice on which product is best for your symptoms. Check nonprescription cough and cold product labels carefully before taking two or more products at the same time. These products may contain the same active ingredient(s) and taking them together could cause you to receive an overdose. This is especially important if you will be giving cough and cold medications to a child. Nonprescription cough and cold combination products, including products that contain brompheniramine, can cause serious side effects or death in young children. Do not give these products to children younger than 6 years of age. If you give these products to children 6-11 years of age, use caution and follow the package directions carefully. If you are giving a product that contains brompheniramine to a child, read the package label carefully to be sure that it is the right product for a child of that age. Do not give brompheniramine products that are made for adults to children. Before you give a brompheniramine product to a child, check the package label to find out how much medication the child should receive. Give the dose that matches the child's age on the chart. Ask the child's doctor if you don't know how much medication to give the child. If you are taking the liquid, do not use a household spoon to measure your dose. Use the measuring spoon or cup that came with the medication or use a spoon made especially for measuring medication. If you are taking the extended-release tablets or capsules swallow them whole; do not crush, break, or chew them. Stop taking brompheniramine and call your doctor if your symptoms last longer than 7 days or if you have a fever. Other uses for this medicine This medication is sometimes prescribed for other uses; ask your doctor or pharmacist for more information. What special precautions should I follow? Before taking brompheniramine, tell your doctor and pharmacist if you are allergic to brompheniramine, any other medications, or any of the ingredients in brompheniramine preparations. Check the package label for a list of the ingredients. tell your doctor and pharmacist what prescription and nonprescription medications, vitamins, nutritional supplements, and herbal products you are taking or plan to take. Be sure to mention any of the following: medications for colds, hay fever, or allergies; medications for depression or seizures; monoamine oxidase (MAO) inhibitors such as isocarboxazid (Marplan), phenelzine (Nardil), selegiline (Eldepryl, Emsam, Zelapar), and tranylcypromine (Parnate); muscle relaxants; narcotic medications for pain; sedatives; sleeping pills; and tranquilizers. tell your doctor if you have or have ever had asthma, emphysema, chronic bronchitis, or other breathing problems; glaucoma (a condition in which increased pressure in the eye can lead to gradual loss of vision); ulcers; difficulty urinating (due to an enlarged prostate gland); heart disease; high blood pressure; seizures; or an overactive thyroid gland. tell your doctor if you are pregnant, plan to become pregnant, or are breast-feeding. If you become pregnant while taking brompheniramine, call your doctor. if you are having surgery, including dental surgery, tell the doctor or dentist that you are taking brompheniramine. you should know that this medication may make you drowsy. Do not drive a car or operate machinery until you know how this medication affects you. talk to your doctor about the safe use of alcohol while you are taking brompheniramine. Alcohol can make the side effects of brompheniramine worse. talk to your doctor about the risks and benefits of taking brompheniramine if you are 65 years of age or older. Older adults should not usually take brompheniramine because it is not as safe or effective as other medications that can be used to treat the same condition. What special dietary instructions should I follow? Unless your doctor tells you otherwise, continue your normal diet. What should I do if I forget a dose? Brompheniramine is usually taken as needed. If your doctor has told you to take brompheniramine regularly, take the missed dose as soon as you remember it. However, if it is almost time for the next dose, skip the missed dose and continue your regular dosing schedule. Do not take a double dose to make up for a missed one. What side effects can this medication cause? Brompheniramine may cause side effects. Tell your doctor if any of these symptoms are severe or do not go away: drowsiness dry mouth, nose, and throat nausea headache chest congestion Some side effects can be serious. If you experience any of the following symptoms, call your doctor immediately: vision problems difficulty urinating Brompheniramine may cause other side effects. Call your doctor if you have any unusual problems while you are taking this medication. If you experience a serious side effect, you or your doctor may send a report to the Food and Drug Administration's (FDA) MedWatch Adverse Event Reporting program online ( http://www.fda.gov/Safety/MedWatch ) or by phone (1-800-332-1088). What should I know about storage and disposal of this medication? Keep this medication in the container it came in, tightly closed, and out of reach of children. Store it at room temperature and away from excess heat and moisture (not in the bathroom). It is important to keep all medication out of sight and reach of children as many containers (such as weekly pill minders and those for eye drops, creams, patches, and inhalers) are not child-resistant and young children can open them easily. To protect young children from poisoning, always lock safety caps and immediately place the medication in a safe location – one that is up and away and out of their sight and reach. http://www.upandaway.org Unneeded medications should be disposed of in special ways to ensure that pets, children, and other people cannot consume them. However, you should not flush this medication down the toilet. Instead, the best way to dispose of your medication is through a medicine take-back program. Talk to your pharmacist or contact your local garbage/recycling department to learn about take-back programs in your community. See the FDA's Safe Disposal of Medicines website ( http://goo.gl/c4Rm4p ) for more information if you do not have access to a take-back program. In case of emergency/overdose In case of overdose, call the poison control helpline at 1-800-222-1222. Information is also available online at https://www.poisonhelp.org/help . If the victim has collapsed, had a seizure, has trouble breathing, or can't be awakened, immediately call emergency services at 911. What other information should I know? Ask your pharmacist any questions you have about brompheniramine. It is important for you to keep a written list of all of the prescription and nonprescription (over-the-counter) medicines you are taking, as well as any products such as vitamins, minerals, or other dietary supplements. You should bring this list with you each time you visit a doctor or if you are admitted to a hospital. It is also important information to carry with you in case of emergencies. Brand names Ala-Hist ® IR Dimetane ® ¶ Disomer ® ¶ J-Tan ® Veltane ®

[ Brompheniramine pronounced as (brome fen ir' a meen)  Brompheniramine relieves red, irritated, itchy, watery eyes; sneezing; and runny nose caused by allergies, hay fever, and the common cold. Brompheniramine helps control symptoms, but does not treat the cause of the symptoms or speed recovery. Brompheniramine should not be used to cause sleepiness in children. Brompheniramine is in a class of medications called antihistamines. It works by blocking the action of histamine, a substance in the body that causes allergic symptoms. How should this medicine be used? Brompheniramine comes in combination with other cough and cold medications as a chewable tablet, an extended-release (long-acting) capsule, an extended-release (long-acting) tablet, and a liquid to be taken by mouth. The chewable tablet and liquid are usually taken every 4 to 6 hours as needed. The extended-release tablets and capsules are usually taken every 8 or 12 hours as needed. Follow the directions on the package label or on your prescription label carefully, and ask your doctor or pharmacist to explain any part you do not understand. Take brompheniramine exactly as directed. Do not take more or less of it or take it more often than directed by the package label or prescribed by your doctor. Brompheniramine comes in combination with other cough and cold medications. Ask your doctor or pharmacist for advice on which product is best for your symptoms. Check nonprescription cough and cold product labels carefully before taking two or more products at the same time. These products may contain the same active ingredient(s) and taking them together could cause you to receive an overdose. This is especially important if you will be giving cough and cold medications to a child. Nonprescription cough and cold combination products, including products that contain brompheniramine, can cause serious side effects or death in young children. Do not give these products to children younger than 6 years of age. If you give these products to children 6-11 years of age, use caution and follow the package directions carefully. If you are giving a product that contains brompheniramine to a child, read the package label carefully to be sure that it is the right product for a child of that age. Do not give brompheniramine products that are made for adults to children. Before you give a brompheniramine product to a child, check the package label to find out how much medication the child should receive. Give the dose that matches the child's age on the chart. Ask the child's doctor if you don't know how much medication to give the child. If you are taking the liquid, do not use a household spoon to measure your dose. Use the measuring spoon or cup that came with the medication or use a spoon made especially for measuring medication. If you are taking the extended-release tablets or capsules swallow them whole; do not crush, break, or chew them. Stop taking brompheniramine and call your doctor if your symptoms last longer than 7 days or if you have a fever. Other uses for this medicine This medication is sometimes prescribed for other uses; ask your doctor or pharmacist for more information. What special precautions should I follow? Before taking brompheniramine, tell your doctor and pharmacist if you are allergic to brompheniramine, any other medications, or any of the ingredients in brompheniramine preparations. Check the package label for a list of the ingredients. tell your doctor and pharmacist what prescription and nonprescription medications, vitamins, nutritional supplements, and herbal products you are taking or plan to take. Be sure to mention any of the following: medications for colds, hay fever, or allergies; medications for depression or seizures; monoamine oxidase (MAO) inhibitors such as isocarboxazid (Marplan), phenelzine (Nardil), selegiline (Eldepryl, Emsam, Zelapar), and tranylcypromine (Parnate); muscle relaxants; narcotic medications for pain; sedatives; sleeping pills; and tranquilizers. tell your doctor if you have or have ever had asthma, emphysema, chronic bronchitis, or other breathing problems; glaucoma (a condition in which increased pressure in the eye can lead to gradual loss of vision); ulcers; difficulty urinating (due to an enlarged prostate gland); heart disease; high blood pressure; seizures; or an overactive thyroid gland. tell your doctor if you are pregnant, plan to become pregnant, or are breast-feeding. If you become pregnant while taking brompheniramine, call your doctor. if you are having surgery, including dental surgery, tell the doctor or dentist that you are taking brompheniramine. you should know that this medication may make you drowsy. Do not drive a car or operate machinery until you know how this medication affects you. talk to your doctor about the safe use of alcohol while you are taking brompheniramine. Alcohol can make the side effects of brompheniramine worse. talk to your doctor about the risks and benefits of taking brompheniramine if you are 65 years of age or older. Older adults should not usually take brompheniramine because it is not as safe or effective as other medications that can be used to treat the same condition. What special dietary instructions should I follow? Unless your doctor tells you otherwise, continue your normal diet. What should I do if I forget a dose? Brompheniramine is usually taken as needed. If your doctor has told you to take brompheniramine regularly, take the missed dose as soon as you remember it. However, if it is almost time for the next dose, skip the missed dose and continue your regular dosing schedule. Do not take a double dose to make up for a missed one. What side effects can this medication cause? Brompheniramine may cause side effects. Tell your doctor if any of these symptoms are severe or do not go away: drowsiness dry mouth, nose, and throat nausea headache chest congestion Some side effects can be serious. If you experience any of the following symptoms, call your doctor immediately: vision problems difficulty urinating Brompheniramine may cause other side effects. Call your doctor if you have any unusual problems while you are taking this medication. If you experience a serious side effect, you or your doctor may send a report to the Food and Drug Administration's (FDA) MedWatch Adverse Event Reporting program online ( http://www.fda.gov/Safety/MedWatch ) or by phone (1-800-332-1088). What should I know about storage and disposal of this medication? Keep this medication in the container it came in, tightly closed, and out of reach of children. Store it at room temperature and away from excess heat and moisture (not in the bathroom). It is important to keep all medication out of sight and reach of children as many containers (such as weekly pill minders and those for eye drops, creams, patches, and inhalers) are not child-resistant and young children can open them easily. To protect young children from poisoning, always lock safety caps and immediately place the medication in a safe location – one that is up and away and out of their sight and reach. http://www.upandaway.org Unneeded medications should be disposed of in special ways to ensure that pets, children, and other people cannot consume them. However, you should not flush this medication down the toilet. Instead, the best way to dispose of your medication is through a medicine take-back program. Talk to your pharmacist or contact your local garbage/recycling department to learn about take-back programs in your community. See the FDA's Safe Disposal of Medicines website ( http://goo.gl/c4Rm4p ) for more information if you do not have access to a take-back program. In case of emergency/overdose In case of overdose, call the poison control helpline at 1-800-222-1222. Information is also available online at https://www.poisonhelp.org/help . If the victim has collapsed, had a seizure, has trouble breathing, or can't be awakened, immediately call emergency services at 911. What other information should I know? Ask your pharmacist any questions you have about brompheniramine. It is important for you to keep a written list of all of the prescription and nonprescription (over-the-counter) medicines you are taking, as well as any products such as vitamins, minerals, or other dietary supplements. You should bring this list with you each time you visit a doctor or if you are admitted to a hospital. It is also important information to carry with you in case of emergencies. Brand names Ala-Hist ® IR Dimetane ® ¶ Disomer ® ¶ J-Tan ® Veltane ®

[ Brompheniramine pronounced as (brome fen ir' a meen)  Brompheniramine relieves red, irritated, itchy, watery eyes; sneezing; and runny nose caused by allergies, hay fever, and the common cold. Brompheniramine helps control symptoms, but does not treat the cause of the symptoms or speed recovery. Brompheniramine should not be used to cause sleepiness in children. Brompheniramine is in a class of medications called antihistamines. It works by blocking the action of histamine, a substance in the body that causes allergic symptoms. How should this medicine be used? Brompheniramine comes in combination with other cough and cold medications as a chewable tablet, an extended-release (long-acting) capsule, an extended-release (long-acting) tablet, and a liquid to be taken by mouth. The chewable tablet and liquid are usually taken every 4 to 6 hours as needed. The extended-release tablets and capsules are usually taken every 8 or 12 hours as needed. Follow the directions on the package label or on your prescription label carefully, and ask your doctor or pharmacist to explain any part you do not understand. Take brompheniramine exactly as directed. Do not take more or less of it or take it more often than directed by the package label or prescribed by your doctor. Brompheniramine comes in combination with other cough and cold medications. Ask your doctor or pharmacist for advice on which product is best for your symptoms. Check nonprescription cough and cold product labels carefully before taking two or more products at the same time. These products may contain the same active ingredient(s) and taking them together could cause you to receive an overdose. This is especially important if you will be giving cough and cold medications to a child. Nonprescription cough and cold combination products, including products that contain brompheniramine, can cause serious side effects or death in young children. Do not give these products to children younger than 6 years of age. If you give these products to children 6-11 years of age, use caution and follow the package directions carefully. If you are giving a product that contains brompheniramine to a child, read the package label carefully to be sure that it is the right product for a child of that age. Do not give brompheniramine products that are made for adults to children. Before you give a brompheniramine product to a child, check the package label to find out how much medication the child should receive. Give the dose that matches the child's age on the chart. Ask the child's doctor if you don't know how much medication to give the child. If you are taking the liquid, do not use a household spoon to measure your dose. Use the measuring spoon or cup that came with the medication or use a spoon made especially for measuring medication. If you are taking the extended-release tablets or capsules swallow them whole; do not crush, break, or chew them. Stop taking brompheniramine and call your doctor if your symptoms last longer than 7 days or if you have a fever. Other uses for this medicine This medication is sometimes prescribed for other uses; ask your doctor or pharmacist for more information. What special precautions should I follow? Before taking brompheniramine, tell your doctor and pharmacist if you are allergic to brompheniramine, any other medications, or any of the ingredients in brompheniramine preparations. Check the package label for a list of the ingredients. tell your doctor and pharmacist what prescription and nonprescription medications, vitamins, nutritional supplements, and herbal products you are taking or plan to take. Be sure to mention any of the following: medications for colds, hay fever, or allergies; medications for depression or seizures; monoamine oxidase (MAO) inhibitors such as isocarboxazid (Marplan), phenelzine (Nardil), selegiline (Eldepryl, Emsam, Zelapar), and tranylcypromine (Parnate); muscle relaxants; narcotic medications for pain; sedatives; sleeping pills; and tranquilizers. tell your doctor if you have or have ever had asthma, emphysema, chronic bronchitis, or other breathing problems; glaucoma (a condition in which increased pressure in the eye can lead to gradual loss of vision); ulcers; difficulty urinating (due to an enlarged prostate gland); heart disease; high blood pressure; seizures; or an overactive thyroid gland. tell your doctor if you are pregnant, plan to become pregnant, or are breast-feeding. If you become pregnant while taking brompheniramine, call your doctor. if you are having surgery, including dental surgery, tell the doctor or dentist that you are taking brompheniramine. you should know that this medication may make you drowsy. Do not drive a car or operate machinery until you know how this medication affects you. talk to your doctor about the safe use of alcohol while you are taking brompheniramine. Alcohol can make the side effects of brompheniramine worse. talk to your doctor about the risks and benefits of taking brompheniramine if you are 65 years of age or older. Older adults should not usually take brompheniramine because it is not as safe or effective as other medications that can be used to treat the same condition. What special dietary instructions should I follow? Unless your doctor tells you otherwise, continue your normal diet. What should I do if I forget a dose? Brompheniramine is usually taken as needed. If your doctor has told you to take brompheniramine regularly, take the missed dose as soon as you remember it. However, if it is almost time for the next dose, skip the missed dose and continue your regular dosing schedule. Do not take a double dose to make up for a missed one. What side effects can this medication cause? Brompheniramine may cause side effects. Tell your doctor if any of these symptoms are severe or do not go away: drowsiness dry mouth, nose, and throat nausea headache chest congestion Some side effects can be serious. If you experience any of the following symptoms, call your doctor immediately: vision problems difficulty urinating Brompheniramine may cause other side effects. Call your doctor if you have any unusual problems while you are taking this medication. If you experience a serious side effect, you or your doctor may send a report to the Food and Drug Administration's (FDA) MedWatch Adverse Event Reporting program online ( http://www.fda.gov/Safety/MedWatch ) or by phone (1-800-332-1088). What should I know about storage and disposal of this medication? Keep this medication in the container it came in, tightly closed, and out of reach of children. Store it at room temperature and away from excess heat and moisture (not in the bathroom). It is important to keep all medication out of sight and reach of children as many containers (such as weekly pill minders and those for eye drops, creams, patches, and inhalers) are not child-resistant and young children can open them easily. To protect young children from poisoning, always lock safety caps and immediately place the medication in a safe location – one that is up and away and out of their sight and reach. http://www.upandaway.org Unneeded medications should be disposed of in special ways to ensure that pets, children, and other people cannot consume them. However, you should not flush this medication down the toilet. Instead, the best way to dispose of your medication is through a medicine take-back program. Talk to your pharmacist or contact your local garbage/recycling department to learn about take-back programs in your community. See the FDA's Safe Disposal of Medicines website ( http://goo.gl/c4Rm4p ) for more information if you do not have access to a take-back program. In case of emergency/overdose In case of overdose, call the poison control helpline at 1-800-222-1222. Information is also available online at https://www.poisonhelp.org/help . If the victim has collapsed, had a seizure, has trouble breathing, or can't be awakened, immediately call emergency services at 911. What other information should I know? Ask your pharmacist any questions you have about brompheniramine. It is important for you to keep a written list of all of the prescription and nonprescription (over-the-counter) medicines you are taking, as well as any products such as vitamins, minerals, or other dietary supplements. You should bring this list with you each time you visit a doctor or if you are admitted to a hospital. It is also important information to carry with you in case of emergencies. Brand names Ala-Hist ® IR Dimetane ® ¶ Disomer ® ¶ J-Tan ® Veltane ®

[ Hydrocortisone Topical pronounced as (hye droe kor' ti sone)  Hydrocortisone topical is used to treat redness, swelling, itching, and discomfort of various skin conditions. Hydrocortisone is in a class of medications called corticosteroids. It works by activating natural substances in the skin to reduce swelling, redness, and itching. How should this medicine be used? Hydrocortisone comes as ointment, cream, solution (liquid), spray, or lotion for use on the skin. Hydrocortisone topical is usually used one to four times a day for skin problems. Apply it at around the same time(s) every day. Follow the directions on your prescription or product label carefully, and ask your doctor or pharmacist to explain any part you do not understand. Use hydrocortisone exactly as directed. Do not apply more or less of it or apply it more often than prescribed by your doctor. Do not apply it to other areas of your body or use it to treat other skin conditions unless directed to do so by your doctor. If your doctor has prescribed hydrocortisone for your condition, call your doctor if your symptoms do not improve in the first 2 weeks of your treatment. If you obtained hydrocortisone without a prescription (over the counter) and your condition does not improve within 7 days, stop using it and call your doctor. To use hydrocortisone topical, apply a small amount of ointment, cream, solution, spray, or lotion to cover the affected area of skin with a thin even film and rub it in gently. This medication is only for use on the skin. Do not let hydrocortisone topical get into your eyes or mouth and do not swallow it. Do not wrap or bandage the treated area unless your doctor tells you that you should. If you have psoriasis, your doctor may recommend an occlusive dressing. If you are applying hydrocortisone topical to a child's diaper area, do not cover the area with tight fitting diapers or plastic pants. Other uses for this medicine This medication may be prescribed for other uses; ask your doctor or pharmacist for more information. What special precautions should I follow? Before using hydrocortisone topical, tell your doctor and pharmacist if you are allergic to hydrocortisone, any other medications, or any of the ingredients in hydrocortisone topical products. Ask your pharmacist for a list of the ingredients. tell your doctor if you have or have ever had diabetes or Cushing's syndrome (an abnormal condition that is caused by excess hormones [corticosteroids]). tell your doctor if you are pregnant, plan to become pregnant, or are breastfeeding. If you become pregnant while using hydrocortisone topical, call your doctor. What special dietary instructions should I follow? Unless your doctor tells you otherwise, continue your normal diet. What should I do if I forget a dose? Apply the missed dose as soon as you remember it. However, if it is almost time for the next dose, skip the missed dose and continue your regular dosing schedule. Do not apply a double amount to make up for a missed dose. What side effects can this medication cause? Hydrocortisone topical may cause side effects. Tell your doctor if any of these symptoms are severe or do not go away: burning, itching, irritation, redness, or dryness of the skin acne unwanted hair growth skin color changes tiny red bumps or rash around the mouth small white or red bumps on the skin Some side effects can be serious. If you experience any of these symptoms, call your doctor immediately: severe rash redness, swelling, or other signs of skin infection in the place where you applied hydrocortisone Children who use hydrocortisone topical may have an increased risk of side effects including slowed growth and delayed weight gain. Talk to your child's doctor about the risks of applying this medication to your child's skin. Hydrocortisone topical may cause other side effects. Call your doctor if you have any unusual problems while using this medication. If you experience a serious side effect, you or your doctor may send a report to the Food and Drug Administration's (FDA) MedWatch Adverse Event Reporting program online ( http://www.fda.gov/Safety/MedWatch ) or by phone (1-800-332-1088). What should I know about storage and disposal of this medication? Keep this medication in the container it came in, tightly closed, and out of reach of children. Store it at room temperature and away from excess heat and moisture (not in the bathroom). Do not freeze it. Unneeded medications should be disposed of in special ways to ensure that pets, children, and other people cannot consume them. However, you should not flush this medication down the toilet. Instead, the best way to dispose of your medication is through a medicine take-back program. Talk to your pharmacist or contact your local garbage/recycling department to learn about take-back programs in your community. See the FDA's Safe Disposal of Medicines website ( http://goo.gl/c4Rm4p ) for more information if you do not have access to a take-back program. It is important to keep all medication out of sight and reach of children as many containers (such as weekly pill minders and those for eye drops, creams, patches, and inhalers) are not child-resistant and young children can open them easily. To protect young children from poisoning, always lock safety caps and immediately place the medication in a safe location – one that is up and away and out of their sight and reach. http://www.upandaway.org In case of emergency/overdose If someone swallows hydrocortisone, call your local poison control center at 1-800-222-1222. If the victim has collapsed or is not breathing, call local emergency services at 911. What other information should I know? Keep all appointments with your doctor. Ask your pharmacist any questions you have about hydrocortisone topical. It is important for you to keep a written list of all of the prescription and nonprescription (over-the-counter) medicines you are taking, as well as any products such as vitamins, minerals, or other dietary supplements. You should bring this list with you each time you visit a doctor or if you are admitted to a hospital. It is also important information to carry with you in case of emergencies. Brand names Ala-Cort ® Ala-Scalp ® Anusol HC ® Cortizone 10 ® Cortizone 10 ® Quick Shot Anti-Itch Spray Dermacort ® ¶ Dermasorb ® HC Hyderm ® Locoid ® Micort-HC ® Neosporin ® Eczema Essentials Nutracort ® Pandel ® Proctocort ® Cream ¶ Stie-Cort ® Synacort ® Texacort ®

[ Phenylephrine pronounced as (fen il ef' rin)  Phenylephrine is used to relieve nasal discomfort caused by colds, allergies, and hay fever. It is also used to relieve sinus congestion and pressure. Phenylephrine will relieve symptoms but will not treat the cause of the symptoms or speed recovery. Phenylephrine is in a class of medications called nasal decongestants. It works by reducing swelling of the blood vessels in the nasal passages. How should this medicine be used? Phenylephrine comes as a tablet, a liquid, or a dissolving strip to take by mouth. It is usually taken every 4 hours as needed. Follow the directions on your prescription label or the package label carefully, and ask your doctor or pharmacist to explain any part you do not understand. Take phenylephrine exactly as directed. Do not take more or less of it or take it more often than prescribed by your doctor or directed on the label. Phenylephrine comes alone and in combination with other medications. Ask your doctor or pharmacist for advice on which product is best for your symptoms. Check nonprescription cough and cold product labels carefully before using two or more products at the same time. These products may contain the same active ingredient(s) and taking them together could cause you to receive an overdose. This is especially important if you will be giving cough and cold medications to a child. Nonprescription cough and cold combination products, including products that contain phenylephrine, can cause serious side effects or death in young children. Do not give these products to children younger than 4 years of age. If you give these products to children 4 to 11 years of age, use caution and follow the package directions carefully. If you are giving phenylephrine or a combination product that contains phenylephrine to a child, read the package label carefully to be sure that it is the right product for a child of that age. Do not give phenylephrine products that are made for adults to children. Before you give a phenylephrine product to a child, check the package label to find out how much medication the child should receive. Give the dose that matches the child's age on the chart. Ask the child's doctor if you don't know how much medication to give the child. If you are taking the liquid, do not use a household spoon to measure your dose. Use the measuring spoon or cup that came with the medication or use a spoon made especially for measuring medication. If your symptoms do not get better within 7 days or if you have a fever, stop taking phenylephrine and call your doctor. If you are taking the dissolving strips, place one strip on your tongue and allow it to dissolve. Other uses for this medicine This medication may be prescribed for other uses; ask your doctor or pharmacist for more information. What special precautions should I follow? Before taking phenylephrine, tell your doctor and pharmacist if you are allergic to phenylephrine, any other medications, or any of the ingredients in phenylephrine preparations. do not take phenylephrine if you are taking a monoamine oxidase (MAO) inhibitor, such as isocarboxazid (Marplan), phenelzine (Nardil), selegiline (Eldepryl, Emsam, Zelapar), and tranylcypromine (Parnate), or if you have stopped taking one of these medications within the past 2 weeks. tell your doctor and pharmacist what other prescription and nonprescription medications, vitamins, nutritional supplements, and herbal products you are taking or plan to take. tell your doctor if you have or have ever had high blood pressure, diabetes, trouble urinating because of an enlarged prostate gland, or thyroid or heart disease. tell your doctor if you are pregnant, plan to become pregnant, or are breast-feeding. If you become pregnant while taking phenylephrine, call your doctor. if you are having surgery, including dental surgery, tell the doctor or dentist that you are taking phenylephrine. if you have phenylketonuria (PKU, an inherited condition in which a special diet must be followed to prevent damage to your brain that can cause severe intellectual disability), you should know that some phenylephrine products may be sweetened with aspartame, a source of phenylalanine. What special dietary instructions should I follow? Unless your doctor tells you otherwise, continue your normal diet. What should I do if I forget a dose? This medication is usually taken as needed. If your doctor has told you to take phenylephrine regularly, take the missed dose as soon as you remember it. However, if it is almost time for the next dose, skip the missed dose and continue your regular dosing schedule. Do not take a double dose to make up for a missed one. What side effects can this medication cause? Phenylephrine may cause side effects. Some side effects can be serious. If you experience any of these symptoms, stop using phenylephrine and call your doctor: nervousness dizziness sleeplessness Phenylephrine may cause other side effects. Call your doctor if you have any unusual problems while taking this medication. If you experience a serious side effect, you or your doctor may send a report to the Food and Drug Administration's (FDA) MedWatch Adverse Event Reporting program online ( http://www.fda.gov/Safety/MedWatch ) or by phone (1-800-332-1088). What should I know about storage and disposal of this medication? Keep this medication in the container it came in, tightly closed, and out of reach of children. Store it at room temperature and away from excess heat and moisture (not in the bathroom). It is important to keep all medication out of sight and reach of children as many containers (such as weekly pill minders and those for eye drops, creams, patches, and inhalers) are not child-resistant and young children can open them easily. To protect young children from poisoning, always lock safety caps and immediately place the medication in a safe location – one that is up and away and out of their sight and reach. http://www.upandaway.org Unneeded medications should be disposed of in special ways to ensure that pets, children, and other people cannot consume them. However, you should not flush this medication down the toilet. Instead, the best way to dispose of your medication is through a medicine take-back program. Talk to your pharmacist or contact your local garbage/recycling department to learn about take-back programs in your community. See the FDA's Safe Disposal of Medicines website ( http://goo.gl/c4Rm4p ) for more information if you do not have access to a take-back program. In case of emergency/overdose In case of overdose, call the poison control helpline at 1-800-222-1222. Information is also available online at https://www.poisonhelp.org/help . If the victim has collapsed, had a seizure, has trouble breathing, or can't be awakened, immediately call emergency services at 911. What other information should I know? Ask your pharmacist any questions you have about phenylephrine. It is important for you to keep a written list of all of the prescription and nonprescription (over-the-counter) medicines you are taking, as well as any products such as vitamins, minerals, or other dietary supplements. You should bring this list with you each time you visit a doctor or if you are admitted to a hospital. It is also important information to carry with you in case of emergencies. Brand names Children's Sudafed PE Nasal Decongestant ® Lusonal ® § PediaCare Children's Decongestant ® Sudafed PE Congestion ® Suphedrin PE ®

[ Phenylephrine pronounced as (fen il ef' rin)  Phenylephrine is used to relieve nasal discomfort caused by colds, allergies, and hay fever. It is also used to relieve sinus congestion and pressure. Phenylephrine will relieve symptoms but will not treat the cause of the symptoms or speed recovery. Phenylephrine is in a class of medications called nasal decongestants. It works by reducing swelling of the blood vessels in the nasal passages. How should this medicine be used? Phenylephrine comes as a tablet, a liquid, or a dissolving strip to take by mouth. It is usually taken every 4 hours as needed. Follow the directions on your prescription label or the package label carefully, and ask your doctor or pharmacist to explain any part you do not understand. Take phenylephrine exactly as directed. Do not take more or less of it or take it more often than prescribed by your doctor or directed on the label. Phenylephrine comes alone and in combination with other medications. Ask your doctor or pharmacist for advice on which product is best for your symptoms. Check nonprescription cough and cold product labels carefully before using two or more products at the same time. These products may contain the same active ingredient(s) and taking them together could cause you to receive an overdose. This is especially important if you will be giving cough and cold medications to a child. Nonprescription cough and cold combination products, including products that contain phenylephrine, can cause serious side effects or death in young children. Do not give these products to children younger than 4 years of age. If you give these products to children 4 to 11 years of age, use caution and follow the package directions carefully. If you are giving phenylephrine or a combination product that contains phenylephrine to a child, read the package label carefully to be sure that it is the right product for a child of that age. Do not give phenylephrine products that are made for adults to children. Before you give a phenylephrine product to a child, check the package label to find out how much medication the child should receive. Give the dose that matches the child's age on the chart. Ask the child's doctor if you don't know how much medication to give the child. If you are taking the liquid, do not use a household spoon to measure your dose. Use the measuring spoon or cup that came with the medication or use a spoon made especially for measuring medication. If your symptoms do not get better within 7 days or if you have a fever, stop taking phenylephrine and call your doctor. If you are taking the dissolving strips, place one strip on your tongue and allow it to dissolve. Other uses for this medicine This medication may be prescribed for other uses; ask your doctor or pharmacist for more information. What special precautions should I follow? Before taking phenylephrine, tell your doctor and pharmacist if you are allergic to phenylephrine, any other medications, or any of the ingredients in phenylephrine preparations. do not take phenylephrine if you are taking a monoamine oxidase (MAO) inhibitor, such as isocarboxazid (Marplan), phenelzine (Nardil), selegiline (Eldepryl, Emsam, Zelapar), and tranylcypromine (Parnate), or if you have stopped taking one of these medications within the past 2 weeks. tell your doctor and pharmacist what other prescription and nonprescription medications, vitamins, nutritional supplements, and herbal products you are taking or plan to take. tell your doctor if you have or have ever had high blood pressure, diabetes, trouble urinating because of an enlarged prostate gland, or thyroid or heart disease. tell your doctor if you are pregnant, plan to become pregnant, or are breast-feeding. If you become pregnant while taking phenylephrine, call your doctor. if you are having surgery, including dental surgery, tell the doctor or dentist that you are taking phenylephrine. if you have phenylketonuria (PKU, an inherited condition in which a special diet must be followed to prevent damage to your brain that can cause severe intellectual disability), you should know that some phenylephrine products may be sweetened with aspartame, a source of phenylalanine. What special dietary instructions should I follow? Unless your doctor tells you otherwise, continue your normal diet. What should I do if I forget a dose? This medication is usually taken as needed. If your doctor has told you to take phenylephrine regularly, take the missed dose as soon as you remember it. However, if it is almost time for the next dose, skip the missed dose and continue your regular dosing schedule. Do not take a double dose to make up for a missed one. What side effects can this medication cause? Phenylephrine may cause side effects. Some side effects can be serious. If you experience any of these symptoms, stop using phenylephrine and call your doctor: nervousness dizziness sleeplessness Phenylephrine may cause other side effects. Call your doctor if you have any unusual problems while taking this medication. If you experience a serious side effect, you or your doctor may send a report to the Food and Drug Administration's (FDA) MedWatch Adverse Event Reporting program online ( http://www.fda.gov/Safety/MedWatch ) or by phone (1-800-332-1088). What should I know about storage and disposal of this medication? Keep this medication in the container it came in, tightly closed, and out of reach of children. Store it at room temperature and away from excess heat and moisture (not in the bathroom). It is important to keep all medication out of sight and reach of children as many containers (such as weekly pill minders and those for eye drops, creams, patches, and inhalers) are not child-resistant and young children can open them easily. To protect young children from poisoning, always lock safety caps and immediately place the medication in a safe location – one that is up and away and out of their sight and reach. http://www.upandaway.org Unneeded medications should be disposed of in special ways to ensure that pets, children, and other people cannot consume them. However, you should not flush this medication down the toilet. Instead, the best way to dispose of your medication is through a medicine take-back program. Talk to your pharmacist or contact your local garbage/recycling department to learn about take-back programs in your community. See the FDA's Safe Disposal of Medicines website ( http://goo.gl/c4Rm4p ) for more information if you do not have access to a take-back program. In case of emergency/overdose In case of overdose, call the poison control helpline at 1-800-222-1222. Information is also available online at https://www.poisonhelp.org/help . If the victim has collapsed, had a seizure, has trouble breathing, or can't be awakened, immediately call emergency services at 911. What other information should I know? Ask your pharmacist any questions you have about phenylephrine. It is important for you to keep a written list of all of the prescription and nonprescription (over-the-counter) medicines you are taking, as well as any products such as vitamins, minerals, or other dietary supplements. You should bring this list with you each time you visit a doctor or if you are admitted to a hospital. It is also important information to carry with you in case of emergencies. Brand names Children's Sudafed PE Nasal Decongestant ® Lusonal ® § PediaCare Children's Decongestant ® Sudafed PE Congestion ® Suphedrin PE ®

[ Diphenhydramine pronounced as (dye fen hye' dra meen)  Diphenhydramine is used to relieve red, irritated, itchy, watery eyes; sneezing; and runny nose caused by hay fever, allergies, or the common cold. Diphenhydramine is also used to relieve cough caused by minor throat or airway irritation. Diphenhydramine is also used to prevent and treat motion sickness, and to treat insomnia (difficulty falling asleep or staying asleep). Diphenhydramine is also used to control abnormal movements in people who have early stage parkinsonian syndrome (a disorder of the nervous system that causes difficulties with movement, muscle control, and balance) or who are experiencing movement problems as a side effect of a medication. Diphenhydramine will relieve the symptoms of these conditions but will not treat the cause of the symptoms or speed recovery. Diphenhydramine should not be used to cause sleepiness in children. Diphenhydramine is in a class of medications called antihistamines. It works by blocking the action of histamine, a substance in the body that causes allergic symptoms. How should this medicine be used? Diphenhydramine comes as a tablet, a rapidly disintegrating (dissolving) tablet, a capsule, a liquid-filled capsule, a dissolving strip, powder, and a liquid to take by mouth. When diphenhydramine is used for the relief of allergies, cold, and cough symptoms, it is usually taken every 4 to 6 hours. When diphenhydramine is used to treat motion sickness, it is usually taken 30 minutes before departure and, if needed, before meals and at bedtime. When diphenhydramine is used to treat insomnia it is taken at bedtime (30 minutes before planned sleep). When diphenhydramine is used to treat abnormal movements, it is usually taken three times a day at first and then taken 4 times a day. Follow the directions on the package or on your prescription label carefully, and ask your doctor or pharmacist to explain any part you do not understand. Take diphenhydramine exactly as directed. Do not take more or less of it or take it more often than prescribed by your doctor or directed on the label. Diphenhydramine comes alone and in combination with pain relievers, fever reducers, and decongestants. Ask your doctor or pharmacist for advice on which product is best for your symptoms. Check nonprescription cough and cold product labels carefully before using two or more products at the same time. These products may contain the same active ingredient(s) and taking them together could cause you to receive an overdose. This is especially important if you will be giving cough and cold medications to a child. Nonprescription cough and cold combination products, including products that contain diphenhydramine, can cause serious side effects or death in young children. Do not give these products to children younger than 4 years of age. If you give these products to children 4 to 11 years of age, use caution and follow the package directions carefully. If you are giving diphenhydramine or a combination product that contains diphenhydramine to a child, read the package label carefully to be sure that it is the right product for a child of that age. Do not give diphenhydramine products that are made for adults to children. Before you give a diphenhydramine product to a child, check the package label to find out how much medication the child should receive. Give the dose that matches the child's age on the chart. Ask the child's doctor if you don't know how much medication to give the child. If you are taking the liquid, do not use a household spoon to measure your dose. Use the measuring spoon or cup that came with the medication or use a spoon made especially for measuring medication. If you are taking the dissolving strips, place the strips on your tongue one at a time and swallow after they melt. If you are taking the rapidly dissolving tablets, place a tablet on your tongue and close your mouth. The tablet will quickly dissolve and can be swallowed with or without water. If you are taking the capsules, swallow them whole. Do not try to break the capsules. Other uses for this medicine This medication is sometimes prescribed for other uses; ask your doctor or pharmacist for more information. What special precautions should I follow? Before taking diphenhydramine, tell your doctor and pharmacist if you are allergic to diphenhydramine, any other medications, or any of the ingredients in diphenhydramine preparations. Ask your doctor or pharmacist or check the package label for a list of the ingredients. tell your doctor and pharmacist what prescription and nonprescription medications, vitamins, nutritional supplements, and herbal products you are taking or plan to take. Be sure to mention any of the following: other diphenhydramine products (even those that are used on the skin); other medications for colds, hay fever, or allergies; medications for anxiety, depression, or seizures; muscle relaxants; narcotic medications for pain; sedatives; sleeping pills; and tranquilizers. tell your doctor if you have or have ever had asthma, emphysema, chronic bronchitis, or other types of lung disease; glaucoma (a condition in which increased pressure in the eye can lead to gradual loss of vision); ulcers; difficulty urinating (due to an enlarged prostate gland); heart disease; high blood pressure; seizures; or an overactive thyroid gland.If you will be using the liquid, tell your doctor if you have been told to follow a low-sodium diet. tell your doctor if you are pregnant, plan to become pregnant, or are breast-feeding. If you become pregnant while taking diphenhydramine, call your doctor. you should know that generally diphenhydramine should not be used in older adults, except to manage serious allergic reactions, because it is not as safe or effective as other medication(s) to treat your condition. If you are 65 years of age or older, talk to your doctor about the risks and benefits of taking this medication. if you are having surgery, including dental surgery, tell the doctor or dentist that you are taking diphenhydramine. you should know that this medication may make you drowsy. Do not drive a car or operate machinery until you know how this medication affects you. remember that alcohol can add to the drowsiness caused by this medication. Avoid alcoholic beverages while you are taking this medication. if you have phenylketonuria (PKU, an inherited condition in which a special diet must be followed to prevent damage to your brain that can cause severe intellectual disability), you should know that some brands of chewable tablets and rapidly disintegrating tablets that contain diphenhydramine may be sweetened with aspartame, a source of phenylalanine. What special dietary instructions should I follow? Unless your doctor tells you otherwise, continue your normal diet. What should I do if I forget a dose? Diphenhydramine is usually taken as needed. If your doctor has told you to take diphenhydramine regularly, take the missed dose as soon as you remember it. However, if it is almost time for the next dose, skip the missed dose and continue your regular dosing schedule. Do not take a double dose to make up for a missed one. What side effects can this medication cause? Diphenhydramine may cause side effects. Tell your doctor if any of these symptoms are severe or do not go away: dry mouth, nose, and throat drowsiness dizziness nausea vomiting loss of appetite constipation increased chest congestion headache muscle weakness excitement (especially in children) nervousness Some side effects may be serious. If you experience any of the following symptoms, call your doctor immediately: vision problems difficulty urinating or painful urination Diphenhydramine may cause other side effects. Call your doctor if you experience any unusual problems while you are taking this medication. If you experience a serious side effect, you or your doctor may send a report to the Food and Drug Administration's (FDA) MedWatch Adverse Event Reporting program online ( http://www.fda.gov/Safety/MedWatch ) or by phone (1-800-332-1088). What should I know about storage and disposal of this medication? Keep this medication in the container it came in, tightly closed, and out of reach of children. Store it at room temperature and away from excess heat and moisture (not in the bathroom). It is important to keep all medication out of sight and reach of children as many containers (such as weekly pill minders and those for eye drops, creams, patches, and inhalers) are not child-resistant and young children can open them easily. To protect young children from poisoning, always lock safety caps and immediately place the medication in a safe location – one that is up and away and out of their sight and reach. http://www.upandaway.org Unneeded medications should be disposed of in special ways to ensure that pets, children, and other people cannot consume them. However, you should not flush this medication down the toilet. Instead, the best way to dispose of your medication is through a medicine take-back program. Talk to your pharmacist or contact your local garbage/recycling department to learn about take-back programs in your community. See the FDA's Safe Disposal of Medicines website ( http://goo.gl/c4Rm4p ) for more information if you do not have access to a take-back program. In case of emergency/overdose In case of overdose, call the poison control helpline at 1-800-222-1222. Information is also available online at https://www.poisonhelp.org/help . If the victim has collapsed, had a seizure, has trouble breathing, or can't be awakened, immediately call emergency services at 911. What other information should I know? Ask your pharmacist any questions you have about diphenhydramine. It is important for you to keep a written list of all of the prescription and nonprescription (over-the-counter) medicines you are taking, as well as any products such as vitamins, minerals, or other dietary supplements. You should bring this list with you each time you visit a doctor or if you are admitted to a hospital. It is also important information to carry with you in case of emergencies. Brand names Aler-Dryl ® Allergia-C ® ¶ Allermax ® ¶ Altaryl ® ¶ Banophen ® ¶ Ben Tann ® § Benadryl ® Bromanate AF ® ¶ Compoz Nighttime Sleep Aid ® ¶ Dicopanol ® § Diphedryl ® ¶ Diphen ® ¶ Diphenadryl ® ¶ Diphenhist ® Diphenylin ® ¶ Dytan ® ¶ Hydramine ® ¶ Nytol ® Pardryl ® ¶ PediaCare Children's Allergy ® Siladryl ® Silphen ® Sominex ® Unisom ®



[ Simethicone pronounced as (sye meth' i kone) To use the sharing features on this page, please enable JavaScript. Why is this medication prescribed? How should this medicine be used? What special precautions should I follow? What should I do if I forget a dose? What side effects can this medication cause? What should I know about storage and disposal of this medication? What other information should I know? Brand names Why is this medication prescribed? Simethicone is used to treat the symptoms of gas such as uncomfortable or painful pressure, fullness, and bloating. This medication is sometimes prescribed for other uses; ask your doctor or pharmacist for more information. How should this medicine be used? Simethicone comes as regular tablets, chewable tablets, capsules, and liquid to take by mouth. It usually is taken four times a day, after meals and at bedtime. Follow the directions on the package or on your prescription label carefully, and ask your doctor or pharmacist to explain any part you do not understand. Take simethicone exactly as directed. Do not take more or less of it or take it more often than prescribed by your doctor. Swallow the regular tablets and capsules whole. Chewable tablets should be chewed thoroughly before being swallowed; do not swallow them whole. Do not take more than six simethicone tablets or eight simethicone capsules each day unless your doctor tells you to. The liquid may be mixed with 1 ounce (30 milliliters) of cool water or infant formula. What special precautions should I follow? Before taking simethicone, tell your doctor and pharmacist if you are allergic to simethicone or any other drugs. tell your doctor and pharmacist what prescription and nonprescription medications you are taking, including vitamins. tell your doctor if you are pregnant, plan to become pregnant, or are breast-feeding. If you become pregnant while taking simethicone, call your doctor. What should I do if I forget a dose? If you are taking simethicone on a regular schedule, take the missed dose as soon you remember it. However, if it is almost time for the next dose, skip the missed dose and continue your regular dosing schedule. Do not take a double dose to make up for a missed one. What side effects can this medication cause? When taken as directed, simethicone usually has no side effects. What should I know about storage and disposal of this medication? Keep this medication in the container it came in, tightly closed, and out of reach of children. Store it at room temperature and away from excess heat and moisture (not in the bathroom). It is important to keep all medication out of sight and reach of children as many containers (such as weekly pill minders and those for eye drops, creams, patches, and inhalers) are not child-resistant and young children can open them easily. To protect young children from poisoning, always lock safety caps and immediately place the medication in a safe location – one that is up and away and out of their sight and reach. http://www.upandaway.org Unneeded medications should be disposed of in special ways to ensure that pets, children, and other people cannot consume them. However, you should not flush this medication down the toilet. Instead, the best way to dispose of your medication is through a medicine take-back program. Talk to your pharmacist or contact your local garbage/recycling department to learn about take-back programs in your community. See the FDA's Safe Disposal of Medicines website ( http://goo.gl/c4Rm4p ) for more information if you do not have access to a take-back program. What other information should I know? Ask your doctor or pharmacist any questions you have about taking this medicine. It is important for you to keep a written list of all of the prescription and nonprescription (over-the-counter) medicines you are taking, as well as any products such as vitamins, minerals, or other dietary supplements. You should bring this list with you each time you visit a doctor or if you are admitted to a hospital. It is also important information to carry with you in case of emergencies. Brand names Alka-Seltzer ® Anti-Gas Colic Drops Colicon ® Degas ® Flatulex ® Drops Gas Aide ® Gas-X ® Genasyme ® Maalox ® Anti-Gas Majorcon ® Micon-80 ® Mylanta ® Gas Mylaval ® Mylicon ® Mytab ® Gas Phazyme ® SonoRx ®

[ Loratadine pronounced as (lor at' a deen)  Loratadine is used to temporarily relieve the symptoms of hay fever (allergy to pollen, dust, or other substances in the air) and other allergies. These symptoms include sneezing, runny nose, and itchy eyes, nose, or throat. Loratadine is also used to treat itching and redness caused by hives. However, loratadine does not prevent hives or other allergic skin reactions. Loratadine is in a class of medications called antihistamines. It works by blocking the action of histamine, a substance in the body that causes allergic symptoms. Loratadine is also available in combination with pseudoephedrine (Sudafed, others). This monograph only includes information about the use of loratadine alone. If you are taking the loratadine and pseudoephedrine combination product, read the information on the package label or ask your doctor or pharmacist for more information. How should this medicine be used? Loratadine comes as a syrup (liquid), a tablet, and a rapidly disintegrating (dissolving) tablet to take by mouth. It is usually taken once a day with or without food. Follow the directions on the package label carefully, and ask your doctor or pharmacist to explain any part you do not understand. Take loratadine exactly as directed. Do not take more or less of it or take it more often than directed on the package label or recommended by your doctor. If you take more loratadine than directed, you may experience drowsiness. If you are taking the rapidly disintegrating tablet, follow the package directions to remove the tablet from the blister package without breaking the tablet. Do not try to push the tablet through the foil. After you remove the tablet from the blister package, immediately place it on your tongue and close your mouth. The tablet will quickly dissolve and can be swallowed with or without water. Do not use loratadine to treat hives that are bruised or blistered, that are an unusual color, or that do not itch. Call your doctor if you have this type of hives. Stop taking loratadine and call your doctor if your hives do not improve during the first 3 days of your treatment or if your hives last longer than 6 weeks. If you do not know the cause of your hives, call your doctor. If you are taking loratadine to treat hives, and you develop any of the following symptoms, get emergency medical help right away: difficulty swallowing, speaking, or breathing; swelling in and around the mouth or swelling of the tongue; wheezing; drooling; dizziness; or loss of consciousness. These may be symptoms of a life-threatening allergic reaction called anaphylaxis. If your doctor suspects that you may experience anaphylaxis with your hives, he may prescribe an epinephrine injector (EpiPen). Do not use loratadine in place of the epinephrine injector. Do not use this medication if the safety seal is open or torn. Other uses for this medicine This medication may be recommended for other uses; ask your doctor or pharmacist for more information. What special precautions should I follow? Before taking loratadine, tell your doctor and pharmacist if you are allergic to loratadine, any other medications, or any of the ingredients in loratadine preparations. Check the package label for a list of the ingredients. tell your doctor and pharmacist what prescription and nonprescription medications, vitamins, nutritional supplements and herbal products you are taking or plan to take. Be sure to mention medications for colds and allergies. tell your doctor if you have or have ever had asthma or kidney or liver disease. tell your doctor if you are pregnant, plan to become pregnant, or are breast-feeding. If you become pregnant while taking loratadine, call your doctor. if you have phenylketonuria (PKU, an inherited condition in which a special diet must be followed to prevent damage to your brain that can cause severe intellectual disability), you should know that some brands of the orally disintegrating tablets may contain aspartame that forms phenylalanine. What special dietary instructions should I follow? Unless your doctor tells you otherwise, continue your normal diet. What should I do if I forget a dose? Take the missed dose as soon as you remember it. However, if it is almost time for the next dose, skip the missed dose and continue your regular dosing schedule. Do not take a double dose to make up for a missed one. What side effects can this medication cause? Loratadine may cause side effects. Tell your doctor if any of these symptoms are severe or do not go away: headache dry mouth nosebleed sore throat mouth sores difficulty falling asleep or staying asleep nervousness weakness stomach pain diarrhea red or itchy eyes Some side effects may be serious. If you experience any of the following symptoms, stop taking loratadine and call your doctor immediately: rash hives itching swelling of the eyes, face, lips, tongue, throat, hands, arms, feet, ankles, or lower legs hoarseness difficulty breathing or swallowing wheezing What should I know about storage and disposal of this medication? Keep this medication in the container it came in, tightly closed, and out of reach of children. Store it at room temperature, away from excess heat and moisture (not in the bathroom)and away from light. Use the orally disintegrating tablets immediately after you remove them from the blister package, and within 6 months after you open the outer foil pouch. Write the date that you open the foil pouch on the product label so that you will know when 6 months have passed. It is important to keep all medication out of sight and reach of children as many containers (such as weekly pill minders and those for eye drops, creams, patches, and inhalers) are not child-resistant and young children can open them easily. To protect young children from poisoning, always lock safety caps and immediately place the medication in a safe location – one that is up and away and out of their sight and reach. http://www.upandaway.org Unneeded medications should be disposed of in special ways to ensure that pets, children, and other people cannot consume them. However, you should not flush this medication down the toilet. Instead, the best way to dispose of your medication is through a medicine take-back program. Talk to your pharmacist or contact your local garbage/recycling department to learn about take-back programs in your community. See the FDA's Safe Disposal of Medicines website ( http://goo.gl/c4Rm4p ) for more information if you do not have access to a take-back program. In case of emergency/overdose In case of overdose, call the poison control helpline at 1-800-222-1222. Information is also available online at https://www.poisonhelp.org/help . If the victim has collapsed, had a seizure, has trouble breathing, or can't be awakened, immediately call emergency services at 911. Symptoms of overdose may include: fast or pounding heartbeat drowsiness headache unusual body movements What other information should I know? Keep all appointments with your doctor. Ask your pharmacist any questions you have about loratadine. It is important for you to keep a written list of all of the prescription and nonprescription (over-the-counter) medicines you are taking, as well as any products such as vitamins, minerals, or other dietary supplements. You should bring this list with you each time you visit a doctor or if you are admitted to a hospital. It is also important information to carry with you in case of emergencies. Brand names Agistam ® ¶ Alavert ® Claritin ® Clear-Atadine ® ¶ Dimetapp ® ND Tavist ® Non-Sedating Wal-itin ®

[ Pseudoephedrine pronounced as (soo doe e fed' rin)  Pseudoephedrine is used to relieve nasal congestion caused by colds, allergies, and hay fever. It is also used to temporarily relieve sinus congestion and pressure. Pseudoephedrine will relieve symptoms but will not treat the cause of the symptoms or speed recovery. Pseudoephedrine is in a class of medications called nasal decongestants. It works by causing narrowing of the blood vessels in the nasal passages. How should this medicine be used? Pseudoephedrine comes as a regular tablet, a 12-hour extended-release (long-acting) tablet, a 24-hour extended-release tablet, and a solution (liquid) to be taken by mouth. The regular tablets and liquid are usually taken every 4 to 6 hours. The 12-hour extended-release tablets usually are taken every 12 hours, and you should not take more than two doses in a 24-hour period. The 24-hour extended-release tablets usually are taken once a day, and you should not take more than one dose in a 24-hour period. To help prevent trouble sleeping, take the last dose of the day several hours before bedtime. Follow the directions on the package label or on your prescription label carefully, and ask your doctor or pharmacist to explain any part you do not understand. Take pseudoephedrine exactly as directed. Do not take more or less of it or take it more often than prescribed by your doctor or directed on the label. Pseudoephedrine comes alone and in combination with other medications. Ask your doctor or pharmacist for advice on which product is best for your symptoms. Check nonprescription cough and cold product labels carefully before using 2 or more products at the same time. These products may contain the same active ingredient(s) and taking them together could cause you to receive an overdose. This is especially important if you will be giving cough and cold medications to a child. Nonprescription cough and cold combination products, including products that contain pseudoephedrine, can cause serious side effects or death in young children. Do not give nonprescription pseudoephedrine products to children younger than 4 years of age. If you give these products to children 4-11 years of age, use caution and follow the package directions carefully. Do not give pseudoephedrine extended-release tablets to children younger than 12 years of age. If you are giving pseudoephedrine or a combination product that contains pseudoephedrine to a child, read the package label carefully to be sure that it is the right product for a child of that age. Do not give pseudoephedrine products that are made for adults to children. Before you give a pseudoephedrine product to a child, check the package label to find out how much medication the child should receive. Give the dose that matches the child's age on the chart. Ask the child's doctor if you don't know how much medication to give the child. If you are taking the liquid, do not use a household spoon to measure your dose. Use the measuring spoon or cup that came with the medication or use a spoon made especially for measuring medication. If your symptoms do not get better within 7 days or if you have a fever, stop taking pseudoephedrine and call your doctor. Swallow the extended-release tablets whole; do not break, crush, or chew them. Other uses for this medicine This medication is also sometimes used to prevent ear pain and blockage caused by pressure changes during air travel or underwater diving. Talk to your doctor or pharmacist for more information. This medication is sometimes prescribed for other uses; ask your doctor or pharmacist for more information. What special precautions should I follow? Before taking pseudoephedrine, tell your doctor and pharmacist if you are allergic to pseudoephedrine, any other medications, or any of the inactive ingredients in the pseudoephedrine product you plan to take. Check the package label for a list of the ingredients. do not take pseudoephedrine if you are taking a monoamine oxidase (MAO) inhibitor such as isocarboxazid (Marplan), phenelzine (Nardil), selegiline (Eldepryl, Emsam, Zelapar), and tranylcypromine (Parnate), or if you have stopped taking one of these medications within the past 2 weeks. tell your doctor and pharmacist what prescription and nonprescription medications, vitamins, nutritional supplements, and herbal products you are taking or plan to take. Be sure to mention medications for diet or appetite control, asthma, colds, or high blood pressure. tell your doctor if you have or have ever had high blood pressure, glaucoma (a condition in which increased pressure in the eye can lead to gradual loss of vision), diabetes, difficulty urinating (due to an enlarged prostate gland), or thyroid or heart disease. If you plan to take the 24-hour extended-release tablets, tell your doctor if you have had a narrowing or blockage of your digestive system. tell your doctor if you are pregnant, plan to become pregnant, or are breast-feeding. If you become pregnant while taking pseudoephedrine, call your doctor. if you are having surgery, including dental surgery, tell the doctor or dentist that you are taking pseudoephedrine. What special dietary instructions should I follow? Foods and drinks that contain large amounts of caffeine can make the side effects of pseudoephedrine worse. What should I do if I forget a dose? This medication is usually taken as needed. If your doctor has told you to take pseudoephedrine regularly, take the missed dose as soon as you remember it. However, if it is almost time for the next dose, skip the missed dose and continue your regular dosing schedule. Do not take a double dose to make up for a missed one. What side effects can this medication cause? Pseudoephedrine may cause side effects. Tell your doctor if any of these symptoms are severe or do not go away: restlessness nausea vomiting weakness headache Some side effects can be serious. If you experience any of the following symptoms, call your doctor immediately: nervousness dizziness difficulty sleeping stomach pain difficulty breathing fast, pounding, or irregular heartbeat Pseudoephedrine may cause other side effects. Call your doctor if you have any unusual problems while you are taking this medication. If you experience a serious side effect, you or your doctor may send a report to the Food and Drug Administration's (FDA) MedWatch Adverse Event Reporting program online ( http://www.fda.gov/Safety/MedWatch ) or by phone (1-800-332-1088). What should I know about storage and disposal of this medication? Keep this medication in the container it came in, tightly closed, and out of reach of children. Store it at room temperature and away from excess heat and moisture (not in the bathroom). Unneeded medications should be disposed of in special ways to ensure that pets, children, and other people cannot consume them. However, you should not flush this medication down the toilet. Instead, the best way to dispose of your medication is through a medicine take-back program. Talk to your pharmacist or contact your local garbage/recycling department to learn about take-back programs in your community. See the FDA's Safe Disposal of Medicines website ( http://goo.gl/c4Rm4p ) for more information if you do not have access to a take-back program. It is important to keep all medication out of sight and reach of children as many containers (such as weekly pill minders and those for eye drops, creams, patches, and inhalers) are not child-resistant and young children can open them easily. To protect young children from poisoning, always lock safety caps and immediately place the medication in a safe location – one that is up and away and out of their sight and reach. http://www.upandaway.org In case of emergency/overdose In case of overdose, call the poison control helpline at 1-800-222-1222. Information is also available online at https://www.poisonhelp.org/help . If the victim has collapsed, had a seizure, has trouble breathing, or can't be awakened, immediately call emergency services at 911. What other information should I know? If you are taking the 24-hour extended-release tablets, you may notice something that looks like a tablet in your stool. This is just the empty tablet shell, and this does not mean that you did not get your complete dose of medication. Ask your pharmacist any questions you have about pseudoephedrine. It is important for you to keep a written list of all of the prescription and nonprescription (over-the-counter) medicines you are taking, as well as any products such as vitamins, minerals, or other dietary supplements. You should bring this list with you each time you visit a doctor or if you are admitted to a hospital. It is also important information to carry with you in case of emergencies. Brand names Afrinol ® ¶ Cenafed ® ¶ Children's Sudafed Nasal Decongestant ® Congestaclear ® ¶ Efidac ® ¶ Myfedrine ® ¶ Pseudocot ® ¶ Ridafed ® ¶ Silfedrine ® Sudafed 12/24 Hour ® Sudafed Congestion ® Sudodrin ® ¶ SudoGest ® Sudrine ® ¶ Superfed ® ¶ Suphedrin ® Allegra-D® (as a combination product containing Fexofenadine, Pseudoephedrine)

[ Loratadine pronounced as (lor at' a deen)  Loratadine is used to temporarily relieve the symptoms of hay fever (allergy to pollen, dust, or other substances in the air) and other allergies. These symptoms include sneezing, runny nose, and itchy eyes, nose, or throat. Loratadine is also used to treat itching and redness caused by hives. However, loratadine does not prevent hives or other allergic skin reactions. Loratadine is in a class of medications called antihistamines. It works by blocking the action of histamine, a substance in the body that causes allergic symptoms. Loratadine is also available in combination with pseudoephedrine (Sudafed, others). This monograph only includes information about the use of loratadine alone. If you are taking the loratadine and pseudoephedrine combination product, read the information on the package label or ask your doctor or pharmacist for more information. How should this medicine be used? Loratadine comes as a syrup (liquid), a tablet, and a rapidly disintegrating (dissolving) tablet to take by mouth. It is usually taken once a day with or without food. Follow the directions on the package label carefully, and ask your doctor or pharmacist to explain any part you do not understand. Take loratadine exactly as directed. Do not take more or less of it or take it more often than directed on the package label or recommended by your doctor. If you take more loratadine than directed, you may experience drowsiness. If you are taking the rapidly disintegrating tablet, follow the package directions to remove the tablet from the blister package without breaking the tablet. Do not try to push the tablet through the foil. After you remove the tablet from the blister package, immediately place it on your tongue and close your mouth. The tablet will quickly dissolve and can be swallowed with or without water. Do not use loratadine to treat hives that are bruised or blistered, that are an unusual color, or that do not itch. Call your doctor if you have this type of hives. Stop taking loratadine and call your doctor if your hives do not improve during the first 3 days of your treatment or if your hives last longer than 6 weeks. If you do not know the cause of your hives, call your doctor. If you are taking loratadine to treat hives, and you develop any of the following symptoms, get emergency medical help right away: difficulty swallowing, speaking, or breathing; swelling in and around the mouth or swelling of the tongue; wheezing; drooling; dizziness; or loss of consciousness. These may be symptoms of a life-threatening allergic reaction called anaphylaxis. If your doctor suspects that you may experience anaphylaxis with your hives, he may prescribe an epinephrine injector (EpiPen). Do not use loratadine in place of the epinephrine injector. Do not use this medication if the safety seal is open or torn. Other uses for this medicine This medication may be recommended for other uses; ask your doctor or pharmacist for more information. What special precautions should I follow? Before taking loratadine, tell your doctor and pharmacist if you are allergic to loratadine, any other medications, or any of the ingredients in loratadine preparations. Check the package label for a list of the ingredients. tell your doctor and pharmacist what prescription and nonprescription medications, vitamins, nutritional supplements and herbal products you are taking or plan to take. Be sure to mention medications for colds and allergies. tell your doctor if you have or have ever had asthma or kidney or liver disease. tell your doctor if you are pregnant, plan to become pregnant, or are breast-feeding. If you become pregnant while taking loratadine, call your doctor. if you have phenylketonuria (PKU, an inherited condition in which a special diet must be followed to prevent damage to your brain that can cause severe intellectual disability), you should know that some brands of the orally disintegrating tablets may contain aspartame that forms phenylalanine. What special dietary instructions should I follow? Unless your doctor tells you otherwise, continue your normal diet. What should I do if I forget a dose? Take the missed dose as soon as you remember it. However, if it is almost time for the next dose, skip the missed dose and continue your regular dosing schedule. Do not take a double dose to make up for a missed one. What side effects can this medication cause? Loratadine may cause side effects. Tell your doctor if any of these symptoms are severe or do not go away: headache dry mouth nosebleed sore throat mouth sores difficulty falling asleep or staying asleep nervousness weakness stomach pain diarrhea red or itchy eyes Some side effects may be serious. If you experience any of the following symptoms, stop taking loratadine and call your doctor immediately: rash hives itching swelling of the eyes, face, lips, tongue, throat, hands, arms, feet, ankles, or lower legs hoarseness difficulty breathing or swallowing wheezing What should I know about storage and disposal of this medication? Keep this medication in the container it came in, tightly closed, and out of reach of children. Store it at room temperature, away from excess heat and moisture (not in the bathroom)and away from light. Use the orally disintegrating tablets immediately after you remove them from the blister package, and within 6 months after you open the outer foil pouch. Write the date that you open the foil pouch on the product label so that you will know when 6 months have passed. It is important to keep all medication out of sight and reach of children as many containers (such as weekly pill minders and those for eye drops, creams, patches, and inhalers) are not child-resistant and young children can open them easily. To protect young children from poisoning, always lock safety caps and immediately place the medication in a safe location – one that is up and away and out of their sight and reach. http://www.upandaway.org Unneeded medications should be disposed of in special ways to ensure that pets, children, and other people cannot consume them. However, you should not flush this medication down the toilet. Instead, the best way to dispose of your medication is through a medicine take-back program. Talk to your pharmacist or contact your local garbage/recycling department to learn about take-back programs in your community. See the FDA's Safe Disposal of Medicines website ( http://goo.gl/c4Rm4p ) for more information if you do not have access to a take-back program. In case of emergency/overdose In case of overdose, call the poison control helpline at 1-800-222-1222. Information is also available online at https://www.poisonhelp.org/help . If the victim has collapsed, had a seizure, has trouble breathing, or can't be awakened, immediately call emergency services at 911. Symptoms of overdose may include: fast or pounding heartbeat drowsiness headache unusual body movements What other information should I know? Keep all appointments with your doctor. Ask your pharmacist any questions you have about loratadine. It is important for you to keep a written list of all of the prescription and nonprescription (over-the-counter) medicines you are taking, as well as any products such as vitamins, minerals, or other dietary supplements. You should bring this list with you each time you visit a doctor or if you are admitted to a hospital. It is also important information to carry with you in case of emergencies. Brand names Agistam ® ¶ Alavert ® Claritin ® Clear-Atadine ® ¶ Dimetapp ® ND Tavist ® Non-Sedating Wal-itin ®



[ Phenylephrine pronounced as (fen il ef' rin)  Phenylephrine is used to relieve nasal discomfort caused by colds, allergies, and hay fever. It is also used to relieve sinus congestion and pressure. Phenylephrine will relieve symptoms but will not treat the cause of the symptoms or speed recovery. Phenylephrine is in a class of medications called nasal decongestants. It works by reducing swelling of the blood vessels in the nasal passages. How should this medicine be used? Phenylephrine comes as a tablet, a liquid, or a dissolving strip to take by mouth. It is usually taken every 4 hours as needed. Follow the directions on your prescription label or the package label carefully, and ask your doctor or pharmacist to explain any part you do not understand. Take phenylephrine exactly as directed. Do not take more or less of it or take it more often than prescribed by your doctor or directed on the label. Phenylephrine comes alone and in combination with other medications. Ask your doctor or pharmacist for advice on which product is best for your symptoms. Check nonprescription cough and cold product labels carefully before using two or more products at the same time. These products may contain the same active ingredient(s) and taking them together could cause you to receive an overdose. This is especially important if you will be giving cough and cold medications to a child. Nonprescription cough and cold combination products, including products that contain phenylephrine, can cause serious side effects or death in young children. Do not give these products to children younger than 4 years of age. If you give these products to children 4 to 11 years of age, use caution and follow the package directions carefully. If you are giving phenylephrine or a combination product that contains phenylephrine to a child, read the package label carefully to be sure that it is the right product for a child of that age. Do not give phenylephrine products that are made for adults to children. Before you give a phenylephrine product to a child, check the package label to find out how much medication the child should receive. Give the dose that matches the child's age on the chart. Ask the child's doctor if you don't know how much medication to give the child. If you are taking the liquid, do not use a household spoon to measure your dose. Use the measuring spoon or cup that came with the medication or use a spoon made especially for measuring medication. If your symptoms do not get better within 7 days or if you have a fever, stop taking phenylephrine and call your doctor. If you are taking the dissolving strips, place one strip on your tongue and allow it to dissolve. Other uses for this medicine This medication may be prescribed for other uses; ask your doctor or pharmacist for more information. What special precautions should I follow? Before taking phenylephrine, tell your doctor and pharmacist if you are allergic to phenylephrine, any other medications, or any of the ingredients in phenylephrine preparations. do not take phenylephrine if you are taking a monoamine oxidase (MAO) inhibitor, such as isocarboxazid (Marplan), phenelzine (Nardil), selegiline (Eldepryl, Emsam, Zelapar), and tranylcypromine (Parnate), or if you have stopped taking one of these medications within the past 2 weeks. tell your doctor and pharmacist what other prescription and nonprescription medications, vitamins, nutritional supplements, and herbal products you are taking or plan to take. tell your doctor if you have or have ever had high blood pressure, diabetes, trouble urinating because of an enlarged prostate gland, or thyroid or heart disease. tell your doctor if you are pregnant, plan to become pregnant, or are breast-feeding. If you become pregnant while taking phenylephrine, call your doctor. if you are having surgery, including dental surgery, tell the doctor or dentist that you are taking phenylephrine. if you have phenylketonuria (PKU, an inherited condition in which a special diet must be followed to prevent damage to your brain that can cause severe intellectual disability), you should know that some phenylephrine products may be sweetened with aspartame, a source of phenylalanine. What special dietary instructions should I follow? Unless your doctor tells you otherwise, continue your normal diet. What should I do if I forget a dose? This medication is usually taken as needed. If your doctor has told you to take phenylephrine regularly, take the missed dose as soon as you remember it. However, if it is almost time for the next dose, skip the missed dose and continue your regular dosing schedule. Do not take a double dose to make up for a missed one. What side effects can this medication cause? Phenylephrine may cause side effects. Some side effects can be serious. If you experience any of these symptoms, stop using phenylephrine and call your doctor: nervousness dizziness sleeplessness Phenylephrine may cause other side effects. Call your doctor if you have any unusual problems while taking this medication. If you experience a serious side effect, you or your doctor may send a report to the Food and Drug Administration's (FDA) MedWatch Adverse Event Reporting program online ( http://www.fda.gov/Safety/MedWatch ) or by phone (1-800-332-1088). What should I know about storage and disposal of this medication? Keep this medication in the container it came in, tightly closed, and out of reach of children. Store it at room temperature and away from excess heat and moisture (not in the bathroom). It is important to keep all medication out of sight and reach of children as many containers (such as weekly pill minders and those for eye drops, creams, patches, and inhalers) are not child-resistant and young children can open them easily. To protect young children from poisoning, always lock safety caps and immediately place the medication in a safe location – one that is up and away and out of their sight and reach. http://www.upandaway.org Unneeded medications should be disposed of in special ways to ensure that pets, children, and other people cannot consume them. However, you should not flush this medication down the toilet. Instead, the best way to dispose of your medication is through a medicine take-back program. Talk to your pharmacist or contact your local garbage/recycling department to learn about take-back programs in your community. See the FDA's Safe Disposal of Medicines website ( http://goo.gl/c4Rm4p ) for more information if you do not have access to a take-back program. In case of emergency/overdose In case of overdose, call the poison control helpline at 1-800-222-1222. Information is also available online at https://www.poisonhelp.org/help . If the victim has collapsed, had a seizure, has trouble breathing, or can't be awakened, immediately call emergency services at 911. What other information should I know? Ask your pharmacist any questions you have about phenylephrine. It is important for you to keep a written list of all of the prescription and nonprescription (over-the-counter) medicines you are taking, as well as any products such as vitamins, minerals, or other dietary supplements. You should bring this list with you each time you visit a doctor or if you are admitted to a hospital. It is also important information to carry with you in case of emergencies. Brand names Children's Sudafed PE Nasal Decongestant ® Lusonal ® § PediaCare Children's Decongestant ® Sudafed PE Congestion ® Suphedrin PE ®















[ Spironolactone and Hydrochlorothiazide pronounced as (spir on'' oh lak' tone) (hye'' droe klor'' oh thye' a zide) To use the sharing features on this page, please enable JavaScript. Why is this medication prescribed? How should this medicine be used? Other uses for this medicine What special precautions should I follow? What special dietary instructions should I follow? What should I do if I forget a dose? What side effects can this medication cause? What should I know about storage and disposal of this medication? In case of emergency/overdose What other information should I know? IMPORTANT WARNING: Spironolactone has caused tumors in laboratory animals. Talk to your doctor about the risks and benefits of using this medicine for your condition. This medication should not be used when you first begin your treatment. You should take this medication only after the appropriate dosages of spironolactone and hydrochlorothiazide are individually established by your doctor. Why is this medication prescribed? The combination of spironolactone and hydrochlorothiazide is used to treat high blood pressure. This medication is also used to treat patients with edema (fluid retention) caused by various conditions, including heart, liver, or kidney disease. Spironolactone is in a class of medications called aldosterone receptor antagonists. It causes the kidneys to eliminate unneeded water and sodium from the body into the urine, but reduces the loss of potassium from the body. Hydrochlorothiazide is in a class of medications called diuretics (''water pills''). It works by causing the kidneys to get rid of unneeded water and salt from the body into the urine. High blood pressure is a common condition and when not treated, can cause damage to the brain, heart, blood vessels, kidneys and other parts of the body. Damage to these organs may cause heart disease, a heart attack, heart failure, stroke, kidney failure, loss of vision, and other problems. In addition to taking medication, making lifestyle changes will also help to control your blood pressure. These changes include eating a diet that is low in fat and salt, maintaining a healthy weight, exercising at least 30 minutes most days, not smoking, and using alcohol in moderation. How should this medicine be used? The combination of spironolactone and hydrochlorothiazide comes as a tablet to take by mouth. It usually is taken once or twice a day. To help you remember to take spironolactone and hydrochlorothiazide, take it around the same time(s) every day. If you are to take it once a day, take it in the morning; if you are to take it twice a day, take it in the morning and in the late afternoon to avoid going to the bathroom during the night. Follow the directions on your prescription label carefully, and ask your doctor or pharmacist to explain any part you do not understand. Take spironolactone and hydrochlorothiazide exactly as directed. Do not take more or less of it or take it more often than prescribed by your doctor. This medication controls high blood pressure and edema, but does not cure these conditions. Continue to take spironolactone and hydrochlorothiazide even if you feel well. Do not stop taking spironolactone and hydrochlorothiazide without talking to your doctor. Other uses for this medicine This medicine is sometimes prescribed for other uses; ask your doctor or pharmacist for more information. What special precautions should I follow? Before taking spironolactone and hydrochlorothiazide, tell your doctor and pharmacist if you are allergic to spironolactone, hydrochlorothiazide, thiazide diuretics (''water pills''), sulfa-based medications, penicillin, other medications, or any of the ingredients in spironolactone and hydrochlorothiazide tablets. Ask your pharmacist for a list of the ingredients. tell your doctor and pharmacist what prescription and nonprescription medications, vitamins, nutritional supplements, and herbal products you are taking or plan to take while taking spironolactone and hydrochlorothiazide. Your doctor may need to change the doses of your medications or monitor you carefully for side effects. ) the following nonprescription products may interact with spironolactone and hydrochlorothiazide: aspirin and other nonsteroidal anti-inflammatory medications (NSAIDS) such as ibuprofen (Advil, Motrin), naproxen (Naprosyn); potassium supplements. Be sure to let your doctor and pharmacist know that you are taking these medications before you start taking spironolactone and hydrochlorothiazide. Do not start any of these medications while taking spironolactone and hydrochlorothiazide without discussing with your healthcare provider. tell your doctor if you have high blood levels of calcium or potassium or have or ever had Addison's disease or other conditions that may cause high blood levels of potassium, or kidney or liver disease. Your doctor may tell you not to take spironolactone and hydrochlorothiazide. tell your doctor if you have or have ever had asthma, systemic lupus erythematosus (SLE, a chronic inflammatory condition), diabetes, or gout. tell your doctor if you are pregnant, plan to become pregnant, or are breast-feeding. If you become pregnant while taking spironolactone and hydrochlorothiazide, call your doctor. if you are having surgery, including dental surgery, tell the doctor or dentist that you are taking spironolactone and hydrochlorothiazide. you should know that this medication may make you drowsy. Do not drive a car or operate machinery until you know how this medication affects you. remember that alcohol can add to the drowsiness caused by this medication. What special dietary instructions should I follow? Follow your doctor's directions for a low-salt or low-sodium diet and daily exercise program. Avoid potassium-containing salt substitutes. Limit your intake of potassium-rich foods (e.g., bananas, prunes, raisins, and orange juice). Ask your doctor for advice on how much of these foods you may have. What should I do if I forget a dose? Take the missed dose as soon as you remember it. However, if it is almost time for the next dose, skip the missed dose and continue your regular dosing schedule. Do not take a double dose to make up for a missed one. What side effects can this medication cause? Spironolactone and hydrochlorothiazide may cause side effects. Tell your doctor if any of these symptoms are severe or do not go away: nausea vomiting diarrhea loss of appetite stomach pain frequent urination dizziness headache enlarged or painful breasts irregular menstrual periods difficulty maintaining or achieving an erection vaginal bleeding in post-menopausal ('after the change of life', the end of monthly menstrual periods) women drowsiness Some side effects can be serious. If you experience any of these symptoms, call your doctor immediately: muscle weakness or cramps changes in vision or eye pain rapid, excessive weight loss fatigue slow or irregular heartbeat unusual bruising or bleeding yellowing of the skin or eyes skin rash itching fever confusion If you experience a serious side effect, you or your doctor may send a report to the Food and Drug Administration's (FDA) MedWatch Adverse Event Reporting program online ( http://www.fda.gov/Safety/MedWatch ) or by phone (1-800-332-1088). What should I know about storage and disposal of this medication? Keep this medicine in the container it came in, tightly closed, and out of reach of children. Store it at room temperature and away from excess heat and moisture (not in the bathroom). Unneeded medications should be disposed of in special ways to ensure that pets, children, and other people cannot consume them. However, you should not flush this medication down the toilet. Instead, the best way to dispose of your medication is through a medicine take-back program. Talk to your pharmacist or contact your local garbage/recycling department to learn about take-back programs in your community. See the FDA's Safe Disposal of Medicines website ( http://goo.gl/c4Rm4p ) for more information if you do not have access to a take-back program. It is important to keep all medication out of sight and reach of children as many containers (such as weekly pill minders and those for eye drops, creams, patches, and inhalers) are not child-resistant and young children can open them easily. To protect young children from poisoning, always lock safety caps and immediately place the medication in a safe location – one that is up and away and out of their sight and reach. http://www.upandaway.org In case of emergency/overdose In case of overdose, call the poison control helpline at 1-800-222-1222. Information is also available online at https://www.poisonhelp.org/help . If the victim has collapsed, had a seizure, has trouble breathing, or can't be awakened, immediately call emergency services at 911. What other information should I know? Keep all appointments with your doctor and the laboratory. Your blood pressure should be checked regularly, and blood tests should be done occasionally. Do not let anyone else take your medicine. Ask your pharmacist any questions you have about refilling your prescription. It is important for you to keep a written list of all of the prescription and nonprescription (over-the-counter) medicines you are taking, as well as any products such as vitamins, minerals, or other dietary supplements. You should bring this list with you each time you visit a doctor or if you are admitted to a hospital. It is also important information to carry with you in case of emergencies.







[ Guaifenesin pronounced as (gwye fen' e sin)  Guaifenesin is used to relieve chest congestion. Guaifenesin may help control symptoms but does not treat the cause of symptoms or speed recovery. Guaifenesin is in a class of medications called expectorants. It works by thinning the mucus in the air passages to make it easier to cough up the mucus and clear the airways. How should this medicine be used? Guaifenesin comes as a tablet, a capsule, an extended-release (long-acting) tablet, dissolving granules, and a syrup (liquid) to take by mouth. The tablets, capsules, dissolving granules, and syrup are usually taken with or without food every 4 hours as needed. The extended-release tablet is usually taken with or without food every 12 hours. Follow the directions on the package or on your prescription label carefully, and ask your doctor or pharmacist to explain any part you do not understand. Take guaifenesin exactly as directed. Do not take more or less of it or take it more often than prescribed by your doctor. Guaifenesin comes alone and in combination with antihistamines, cough suppressants, and decongestants. Ask your doctor or pharmacist for advice on which product is best for your symptoms. Check nonprescription cough and cold product labels carefully before using two or more products at the same time. These products may contain the same active ingredient(s) and taking them together could cause you to receive an overdose. This is especially important if you will be giving cough and cold medications to a child. Nonprescription cough and cold combination products, including products that contain guaifenesin, can cause serious side effects or death in young children. Do not give these products to children younger than 4 years of age. If you give these products to children 4 to 11 years of age, use caution and follow the package directions carefully. If you are giving guaifenesin or a combination product that contains guaifenesin to a child, read the package label carefully to be sure that it is the right product for a child of that age. Do not give guaifenesin products that are made for adults to children. Before you give a guaifenesin product to a child, check the package label to find out how much medication the child should receive. Give the dose that matches the child's age on the chart. Ask the child's doctor if you don't know how much medication to give the child. If you are taking the liquid, do not use a household spoon to measure your dose. Use the measuring spoon or cup that came with the medication or use a spoon made especially for measuring medication. Swallow the extended-release tablets whole with a full glass of water. Do not break, crush, or chew them. If you are taking the dissolving granules, empty the entire contents of the packet onto your tongue and swallow. If your symptoms do not improve within 7 days or if you also have a high fever, a rash, or a headache that does not go away, call your doctor. Other uses for this medicine This medication is sometimes prescribed for other uses; ask your doctor or pharmacist for more information. What special precautions should I follow? Before taking guaifenesin, tell your doctor and pharmacist if you are allergic to guaifenesin, any other medications, or any of the ingredients in the guaifenesin product you plan to take. Check the package label for a list of the ingredients. tell your doctor and pharmacist what prescription and nonprescription medications, vitamins, nutritional supplements, and herbal products you are taking or plan to take. tell your doctor if you smoke and if you have or have ever had a cough that occurs with a large amount of phlegm (mucus) or if you have or have ever had a breathing problem such as asthma, emphysema, or chronic bronchitis. If you will be taking the dissolving granules, tell your doctor if you are on a low magnesium diet or if you have kidney disease. tell your doctor if you are pregnant, plan to become pregnant, or are breast-feeding. If you become pregnant while taking guaifenesin, call your doctor. if you have phenylketonuria (PKU, a inherited condition in which a special diet must be followed to prevent damage to your brain that can cause severe intellectual disability), you should know that the dissolving granules may be sweetened with aspartame, a source of phenylalanine. What special dietary instructions should I follow? Drink plenty of fluids while you are taking this medication. Unless your doctor tells you otherwise, continue your normal diet. What should I do if I forget a dose? Guaifenesin is usually taken as needed. If your doctor has told you to take guaifenesin regularly, take the missed dose as soon as you remember it. However, if it is almost time for the next dose, skip the missed dose and continue your regular dosing schedule. Do not take a double dose to make up for a missed one. What side effects can this medication cause? Guaifenesin may cause side effects. Tell your doctor if any of these symptoms are severe or do not go away: headache nausea vomiting Guaifenesin may cause other side effects. Call your doctor if you have any unusual problems while you are taking this medication. If you experience a serious side effect, you or your doctor may send a report to the Food and Drug Administration's (FDA) MedWatch Adverse Event Reporting program online ( http://www.fda.gov/Safety/MedWatch ) or by phone (1-800-332-1088). What should I know about storage and disposal of this medication? Keep this medication in the container it came in, tightly closed, and out of reach of children. Store it at room temperature and away from excess heat and moisture (not in the bathroom). Unneeded medications should be disposed of in special ways to ensure that pets, children, and other people cannot consume them. However, you should not flush this medication down the toilet. Instead, the best way to dispose of your medication is through a medicine take-back program. Talk to your pharmacist or contact your local garbage/recycling department to learn about take-back programs in your community. See the FDA's Safe Disposal of Medicines website ( http://goo.gl/c4Rm4p ) for more information if you do not have access to a take-back program. It is important to keep all medication out of sight and reach of children as many containers (such as weekly pill minders and those for eye drops, creams, patches, and inhalers) are not child-resistant and young children can open them easily. To protect young children from poisoning, always lock safety caps and immediately place the medication in a safe location – one that is up and away and out of their sight and reach. http://www.upandaway.org In case of emergency/overdose In case of overdose, call the poison control helpline at 1-800-222-1222. Information is also available online at https://www.poisonhelp.org/help . If the victim has collapsed, had a seizure, has trouble breathing, or can't be awakened, immediately call emergency services at 911. What other information should I know? Ask your pharmacist any questions you have about guaifenesin. It is important for you to keep a written list of all of the prescription and nonprescription (over-the-counter) medicines you are taking, as well as any products such as vitamins, minerals, or other dietary supplements. You should bring this list with you each time you visit a doctor or if you are admitted to a hospital. It is also important information to carry with you in case of emergencies. Brand names Adult Tussin ® Air Power ® Bronchoril ® Chest Congestion ® Childrens Mucinex ® Childrens Mucus Relief ® Cough Out ® Diabetic Siltussin DAS-Na ® Diabetic Tussin Expectorant ® Diabetic Tussin Mucus Relief ® Equaline Tussin ® Equate Tussin ® Good Neighbor Pharmacy Tussin ® Good Sense Tussin ® Guiatuss ® Iophen NR ® Kids-EEZE ® Leader Adult Tussin ® Leader Mucus Relief ® Liqufruta ® Little Remedies Little Colds Mucus Relief Expectorant Melt Aways ® MucaPlex ® Mucinex ® Mucinex for Kids ® Mucus Relief ® Mucus Relief Chest ® ORGAN-I NR ® Premier Value Chest Congestion Relief ® Q-Tussin ® Refenesen ® Chest Congestion Relief Robitussin ® Chest Congestion Scot-Tussin ® Expectorant SF Cough SelectHealth Tussin DM ® Siltussin DAS ® Siltussin SA ® Smart Sense Tussin ® Sunmark Tussin ® Topcare Mucus Relief ® Topcare Tussin ® Tussin ® Tussin Chest ® Tussin Chest Congestion ® Tussin Original ® Up and Up Childrens Mucus Relief ® Vicks ® DayQuil ® Wal Tussin ®

[ Doxylamine pronounced as (dox il' a meen)  Doxylamine is used in the short-term treatment of insomnia (difficulty falling asleep or staying asleep). Doxylamine is also used in combination with decongestants and other medications to relieve sneezing, runny nose, and nasal congestion caused by the common cold. Doxylamine should not be used to cause sleepiness in children. Doxylamine is in a class of medications called antihistamines. It works by blocking the action of histamine, a substance in the body that causes allergic symptoms. How should this medicine be used? Doxylamine comes as a tablet to take by mouth for sleep, and in combination with other medications as a liquid and liquid-filled capsule to treat symptoms of the common cold. When doxylamine is used to reduce difficulty falling asleep, it usually is taken 30 minutes before bedtime. When doxylamine is used to treat cold symptoms, it is usually taken every 4 to 6 hours. Follow the directions on the package label or on your prescription label carefully, and ask your doctor or pharmacist to explain any part you do not understand. Take doxylamine exactly as directed. Do not take more or less of it or take it more often than prescribed by your doctor or directed on the package label. Doxylamine comes alone and in combination with pain relievers, fever reducers, and cough suppressants, If you are choosing a product to treat cough or cold symptoms, ask your doctor or pharmacist for advice on which product is best for your symptoms. Check nonprescription cough and cold product labels carefully before using two or more products at the same time. These products may contain the same active ingredient(s) and taking them together could cause you to receive an overdose. Nonprescription cough and cold combination products, including products that contain doxylamine, can cause serious side effects or death in young children. Do not give nonprescription products that contain doxylamine to children younger than 4 years of age. Ask a doctor before giving these products to children 4 to 12 years of age. Cough and cold symptoms that get worse or that do not go away may be signs of a more serious condition. If you are taking doxylamine in combination with other medications to treat cough and cold symptoms, call your doctor if your symptoms worsen or if they last longer than 7 days. If you are taking doxylamine to treat insomnia, you will probably become very sleepy soon after you take the medication and will remain sleepy for some time after you take the medication. Plan to remain asleep for 7 to 8 hours after taking the medication. If you get up too soon after taking doxylamine, you may be drowsy. Doxylamine should only be used to treat insomnia for a short time. Call your doctor if you feel that you need to take doxylamine for longer than 2 weeks. If you are using the liquid, do not use a household spoon to measure your dose. Use the measuring cup or spoon that came with the medication or use a spoon that is made especially for measuring medication. Other uses for this medicine This medication is sometimes prescribed for other uses; ask your doctor or pharmacist for more information. What special precautions should I follow? Before taking doxylamine, tell your doctor and pharmacist if you are allergic to doxylamine, any other medications, or any of the ingredients in the doxylamine preparation. Ask your doctor or pharmacist or check the package label for a list of the ingredients. tell your doctor and pharmacist what prescription and nonprescription medications, vitamins, nutritional supplements, and herbal products you are taking or plan to take. Be sure to mention any of the following: medications for colds, hay fever, or allergies; medications for depression; muscle relaxants; narcotic medications for pain; sedatives; sleep medications; and tranquilizers. tell your doctor if you have or have ever had asthma, emphysema, chronic bronchitis, or other breathing problems; glaucoma (a condition in which increased pressure in the eye can lead to gradual loss of vision); ulcers; difficulty urinating (due to an enlarged prostate gland); heart disease, high blood pressure, seizures,or an overactive thyroid gland. tell your doctor if you are pregnant, plan to become pregnant, or are breast-feeding. If you become pregnant while taking doxylamine, call your doctor. if you are having surgery, including dental surgery, tell the doctor or dentist that you are taking doxylamine. you should know that this medication may make you drowsy. Do not drive a car or operate machinery until you know how this medication affects you. remember that alcohol can add to the drowsiness caused by this medication. Avoid alcoholic beverages while you are taking this medication. talk to your doctor about the risks and benefits of taking doxylamine if you are 65 years of age or older. Older adults should not usually take doxylamine because it is not as safe or effective as other medications that can be used to treat the same condition. What special dietary instructions should I follow? Unless your doctor tells you otherwise, continue your normal diet. What should I do if I forget a dose? Doxylamine is usually taken as needed. If your doctor has told you to take doxylamine regularly, take the missed dose as soon as you remember it. However, if it is almost time for the next dose, skip the missed dose and continue your regular dosing schedule. Do not take a double dose to make up for a missed one. What side effects can this medication cause? Doxylamine may cause side effects. Tell your doctor if any of these symptoms are severe or do not go away: dry mouth, nose, and throat drowsiness nausea increased chest congestion headache excitement nervousness Some side effects can be serious. If you experience any of the following symptoms, call your doctor immediately: vision problems difficulty urinating Doxylamine may cause other side effects. Call your doctor if you have any unusual problems while you are taking this medication. If you experience a serious side effect, you or your doctor may send a report to the Food and Drug Administration's (FDA) MedWatch Adverse Event Reporting program online ( http://www.fda.gov/Safety/MedWatch ) or by phone (1-800-332-1088). What should I know about storage and disposal of this medication? Keep this medication in the container it came in, tightly closed, and out of reach of children. Store it at room temperature and away from excess heat and moisture (not in the bathroom). It is important to keep all medication out of sight and reach of children as many containers (such as weekly pill minders and those for eye drops, creams, patches, and inhalers) are not child-resistant and young children can open them easily. To protect young children from poisoning, always lock safety caps and immediately place the medication in a safe location – one that is up and away and out of their sight and reach. http://www.upandaway.org Unneeded medications should be disposed of in special ways to ensure that pets, children, and other people cannot consume them. However, you should not flush this medication down the toilet. Instead, the best way to dispose of your medication is through a medicine take-back program. Talk to your pharmacist or contact your local garbage/recycling department to learn about take-back programs in your community. See the FDA's Safe Disposal of Medicines website ( http://goo.gl/c4Rm4p ) for more information if you do not have access to a take-back program. In case of emergency/overdose In case of overdose, call the poison control helpline at 1-800-222-1222. Information is also available online at https://www.poisonhelp.org/help . If the victim has collapsed, had a seizure, has trouble breathing, or can't be awakened, immediately call emergency services at 911. What other information should I know? Ask your pharmacist any questions you have about doxylamine. It is important for you to keep a written list of all of the prescription and nonprescription (over-the-counter) medicines you are taking, as well as any products such as vitamins, minerals, or other dietary supplements. You should bring this list with you each time you visit a doctor or if you are admitted to a hospital. It is also important information to carry with you in case of emergencies. Brand names Aldex AN ® Nighttime Sleep Aid Unisom ® SleepTabs

[ Phenylephrine pronounced as (fen il ef' rin)  Phenylephrine is used to relieve nasal discomfort caused by colds, allergies, and hay fever. It is also used to relieve sinus congestion and pressure. Phenylephrine will relieve symptoms but will not treat the cause of the symptoms or speed recovery. Phenylephrine is in a class of medications called nasal decongestants. It works by reducing swelling of the blood vessels in the nasal passages. How should this medicine be used? Phenylephrine comes as a tablet, a liquid, or a dissolving strip to take by mouth. It is usually taken every 4 hours as needed. Follow the directions on your prescription label or the package label carefully, and ask your doctor or pharmacist to explain any part you do not understand. Take phenylephrine exactly as directed. Do not take more or less of it or take it more often than prescribed by your doctor or directed on the label. Phenylephrine comes alone and in combination with other medications. Ask your doctor or pharmacist for advice on which product is best for your symptoms. Check nonprescription cough and cold product labels carefully before using two or more products at the same time. These products may contain the same active ingredient(s) and taking them together could cause you to receive an overdose. This is especially important if you will be giving cough and cold medications to a child. Nonprescription cough and cold combination products, including products that contain phenylephrine, can cause serious side effects or death in young children. Do not give these products to children younger than 4 years of age. If you give these products to children 4 to 11 years of age, use caution and follow the package directions carefully. If you are giving phenylephrine or a combination product that contains phenylephrine to a child, read the package label carefully to be sure that it is the right product for a child of that age. Do not give phenylephrine products that are made for adults to children. Before you give a phenylephrine product to a child, check the package label to find out how much medication the child should receive. Give the dose that matches the child's age on the chart. Ask the child's doctor if you don't know how much medication to give the child. If you are taking the liquid, do not use a household spoon to measure your dose. Use the measuring spoon or cup that came with the medication or use a spoon made especially for measuring medication. If your symptoms do not get better within 7 days or if you have a fever, stop taking phenylephrine and call your doctor. If you are taking the dissolving strips, place one strip on your tongue and allow it to dissolve. Other uses for this medicine This medication may be prescribed for other uses; ask your doctor or pharmacist for more information. What special precautions should I follow? Before taking phenylephrine, tell your doctor and pharmacist if you are allergic to phenylephrine, any other medications, or any of the ingredients in phenylephrine preparations. do not take phenylephrine if you are taking a monoamine oxidase (MAO) inhibitor, such as isocarboxazid (Marplan), phenelzine (Nardil), selegiline (Eldepryl, Emsam, Zelapar), and tranylcypromine (Parnate), or if you have stopped taking one of these medications within the past 2 weeks. tell your doctor and pharmacist what other prescription and nonprescription medications, vitamins, nutritional supplements, and herbal products you are taking or plan to take. tell your doctor if you have or have ever had high blood pressure, diabetes, trouble urinating because of an enlarged prostate gland, or thyroid or heart disease. tell your doctor if you are pregnant, plan to become pregnant, or are breast-feeding. If you become pregnant while taking phenylephrine, call your doctor. if you are having surgery, including dental surgery, tell the doctor or dentist that you are taking phenylephrine. if you have phenylketonuria (PKU, an inherited condition in which a special diet must be followed to prevent damage to your brain that can cause severe intellectual disability), you should know that some phenylephrine products may be sweetened with aspartame, a source of phenylalanine. What special dietary instructions should I follow? Unless your doctor tells you otherwise, continue your normal diet. What should I do if I forget a dose? This medication is usually taken as needed. If your doctor has told you to take phenylephrine regularly, take the missed dose as soon as you remember it. However, if it is almost time for the next dose, skip the missed dose and continue your regular dosing schedule. Do not take a double dose to make up for a missed one. What side effects can this medication cause? Phenylephrine may cause side effects. Some side effects can be serious. If you experience any of these symptoms, stop using phenylephrine and call your doctor: nervousness dizziness sleeplessness Phenylephrine may cause other side effects. Call your doctor if you have any unusual problems while taking this medication. If you experience a serious side effect, you or your doctor may send a report to the Food and Drug Administration's (FDA) MedWatch Adverse Event Reporting program online ( http://www.fda.gov/Safety/MedWatch ) or by phone (1-800-332-1088). What should I know about storage and disposal of this medication? Keep this medication in the container it came in, tightly closed, and out of reach of children. Store it at room temperature and away from excess heat and moisture (not in the bathroom). It is important to keep all medication out of sight and reach of children as many containers (such as weekly pill minders and those for eye drops, creams, patches, and inhalers) are not child-resistant and young children can open them easily. To protect young children from poisoning, always lock safety caps and immediately place the medication in a safe location – one that is up and away and out of their sight and reach. http://www.upandaway.org Unneeded medications should be disposed of in special ways to ensure that pets, children, and other people cannot consume them. However, you should not flush this medication down the toilet. Instead, the best way to dispose of your medication is through a medicine take-back program. Talk to your pharmacist or contact your local garbage/recycling department to learn about take-back programs in your community. See the FDA's Safe Disposal of Medicines website ( http://goo.gl/c4Rm4p ) for more information if you do not have access to a take-back program. In case of emergency/overdose In case of overdose, call the poison control helpline at 1-800-222-1222. Information is also available online at https://www.poisonhelp.org/help . If the victim has collapsed, had a seizure, has trouble breathing, or can't be awakened, immediately call emergency services at 911. What other information should I know? Ask your pharmacist any questions you have about phenylephrine. It is important for you to keep a written list of all of the prescription and nonprescription (over-the-counter) medicines you are taking, as well as any products such as vitamins, minerals, or other dietary supplements. You should bring this list with you each time you visit a doctor or if you are admitted to a hospital. It is also important information to carry with you in case of emergencies. Brand names Children's Sudafed PE Nasal Decongestant ® Lusonal ® § PediaCare Children's Decongestant ® Sudafed PE Congestion ® Suphedrin PE ®

[ Diphenhydramine pronounced as (dye fen hye' dra meen)  Diphenhydramine is used to relieve red, irritated, itchy, watery eyes; sneezing; and runny nose caused by hay fever, allergies, or the common cold. Diphenhydramine is also used to relieve cough caused by minor throat or airway irritation. Diphenhydramine is also used to prevent and treat motion sickness, and to treat insomnia (difficulty falling asleep or staying asleep). Diphenhydramine is also used to control abnormal movements in people who have early stage parkinsonian syndrome (a disorder of the nervous system that causes difficulties with movement, muscle control, and balance) or who are experiencing movement problems as a side effect of a medication. Diphenhydramine will relieve the symptoms of these conditions but will not treat the cause of the symptoms or speed recovery. Diphenhydramine should not be used to cause sleepiness in children. Diphenhydramine is in a class of medications called antihistamines. It works by blocking the action of histamine, a substance in the body that causes allergic symptoms. How should this medicine be used? Diphenhydramine comes as a tablet, a rapidly disintegrating (dissolving) tablet, a capsule, a liquid-filled capsule, a dissolving strip, powder, and a liquid to take by mouth. When diphenhydramine is used for the relief of allergies, cold, and cough symptoms, it is usually taken every 4 to 6 hours. When diphenhydramine is used to treat motion sickness, it is usually taken 30 minutes before departure and, if needed, before meals and at bedtime. When diphenhydramine is used to treat insomnia it is taken at bedtime (30 minutes before planned sleep). When diphenhydramine is used to treat abnormal movements, it is usually taken three times a day at first and then taken 4 times a day. Follow the directions on the package or on your prescription label carefully, and ask your doctor or pharmacist to explain any part you do not understand. Take diphenhydramine exactly as directed. Do not take more or less of it or take it more often than prescribed by your doctor or directed on the label. Diphenhydramine comes alone and in combination with pain relievers, fever reducers, and decongestants. Ask your doctor or pharmacist for advice on which product is best for your symptoms. Check nonprescription cough and cold product labels carefully before using two or more products at the same time. These products may contain the same active ingredient(s) and taking them together could cause you to receive an overdose. This is especially important if you will be giving cough and cold medications to a child. Nonprescription cough and cold combination products, including products that contain diphenhydramine, can cause serious side effects or death in young children. Do not give these products to children younger than 4 years of age. If you give these products to children 4 to 11 years of age, use caution and follow the package directions carefully. If you are giving diphenhydramine or a combination product that contains diphenhydramine to a child, read the package label carefully to be sure that it is the right product for a child of that age. Do not give diphenhydramine products that are made for adults to children. Before you give a diphenhydramine product to a child, check the package label to find out how much medication the child should receive. Give the dose that matches the child's age on the chart. Ask the child's doctor if you don't know how much medication to give the child. If you are taking the liquid, do not use a household spoon to measure your dose. Use the measuring spoon or cup that came with the medication or use a spoon made especially for measuring medication. If you are taking the dissolving strips, place the strips on your tongue one at a time and swallow after they melt. If you are taking the rapidly dissolving tablets, place a tablet on your tongue and close your mouth. The tablet will quickly dissolve and can be swallowed with or without water. If you are taking the capsules, swallow them whole. Do not try to break the capsules. Other uses for this medicine This medication is sometimes prescribed for other uses; ask your doctor or pharmacist for more information. What special precautions should I follow? Before taking diphenhydramine, tell your doctor and pharmacist if you are allergic to diphenhydramine, any other medications, or any of the ingredients in diphenhydramine preparations. Ask your doctor or pharmacist or check the package label for a list of the ingredients. tell your doctor and pharmacist what prescription and nonprescription medications, vitamins, nutritional supplements, and herbal products you are taking or plan to take. Be sure to mention any of the following: other diphenhydramine products (even those that are used on the skin); other medications for colds, hay fever, or allergies; medications for anxiety, depression, or seizures; muscle relaxants; narcotic medications for pain; sedatives; sleeping pills; and tranquilizers. tell your doctor if you have or have ever had asthma, emphysema, chronic bronchitis, or other types of lung disease; glaucoma (a condition in which increased pressure in the eye can lead to gradual loss of vision); ulcers; difficulty urinating (due to an enlarged prostate gland); heart disease; high blood pressure; seizures; or an overactive thyroid gland.If you will be using the liquid, tell your doctor if you have been told to follow a low-sodium diet. tell your doctor if you are pregnant, plan to become pregnant, or are breast-feeding. If you become pregnant while taking diphenhydramine, call your doctor. you should know that generally diphenhydramine should not be used in older adults, except to manage serious allergic reactions, because it is not as safe or effective as other medication(s) to treat your condition. If you are 65 years of age or older, talk to your doctor about the risks and benefits of taking this medication. if you are having surgery, including dental surgery, tell the doctor or dentist that you are taking diphenhydramine. you should know that this medication may make you drowsy. Do not drive a car or operate machinery until you know how this medication affects you. remember that alcohol can add to the drowsiness caused by this medication. Avoid alcoholic beverages while you are taking this medication. if you have phenylketonuria (PKU, an inherited condition in which a special diet must be followed to prevent damage to your brain that can cause severe intellectual disability), you should know that some brands of chewable tablets and rapidly disintegrating tablets that contain diphenhydramine may be sweetened with aspartame, a source of phenylalanine. What special dietary instructions should I follow? Unless your doctor tells you otherwise, continue your normal diet. What should I do if I forget a dose? Diphenhydramine is usually taken as needed. If your doctor has told you to take diphenhydramine regularly, take the missed dose as soon as you remember it. However, if it is almost time for the next dose, skip the missed dose and continue your regular dosing schedule. Do not take a double dose to make up for a missed one. What side effects can this medication cause? Diphenhydramine may cause side effects. Tell your doctor if any of these symptoms are severe or do not go away: dry mouth, nose, and throat drowsiness dizziness nausea vomiting loss of appetite constipation increased chest congestion headache muscle weakness excitement (especially in children) nervousness Some side effects may be serious. If you experience any of the following symptoms, call your doctor immediately: vision problems difficulty urinating or painful urination Diphenhydramine may cause other side effects. Call your doctor if you experience any unusual problems while you are taking this medication. If you experience a serious side effect, you or your doctor may send a report to the Food and Drug Administration's (FDA) MedWatch Adverse Event Reporting program online ( http://www.fda.gov/Safety/MedWatch ) or by phone (1-800-332-1088). What should I know about storage and disposal of this medication? Keep this medication in the container it came in, tightly closed, and out of reach of children. Store it at room temperature and away from excess heat and moisture (not in the bathroom). It is important to keep all medication out of sight and reach of children as many containers (such as weekly pill minders and those for eye drops, creams, patches, and inhalers) are not child-resistant and young children can open them easily. To protect young children from poisoning, always lock safety caps and immediately place the medication in a safe location – one that is up and away and out of their sight and reach. http://www.upandaway.org Unneeded medications should be disposed of in special ways to ensure that pets, children, and other people cannot consume them. However, you should not flush this medication down the toilet. Instead, the best way to dispose of your medication is through a medicine take-back program. Talk to your pharmacist or contact your local garbage/recycling department to learn about take-back programs in your community. See the FDA's Safe Disposal of Medicines website ( http://goo.gl/c4Rm4p ) for more information if you do not have access to a take-back program. In case of emergency/overdose In case of overdose, call the poison control helpline at 1-800-222-1222. Information is also available online at https://www.poisonhelp.org/help . If the victim has collapsed, had a seizure, has trouble breathing, or can't be awakened, immediately call emergency services at 911. What other information should I know? Ask your pharmacist any questions you have about diphenhydramine. It is important for you to keep a written list of all of the prescription and nonprescription (over-the-counter) medicines you are taking, as well as any products such as vitamins, minerals, or other dietary supplements. You should bring this list with you each time you visit a doctor or if you are admitted to a hospital. It is also important information to carry with you in case of emergencies. Brand names Aler-Dryl ® Allergia-C ® ¶ Allermax ® ¶ Altaryl ® ¶ Banophen ® ¶ Ben Tann ® § Benadryl ® Bromanate AF ® ¶ Compoz Nighttime Sleep Aid ® ¶ Dicopanol ® § Diphedryl ® ¶ Diphen ® ¶ Diphenadryl ® ¶ Diphenhist ® Diphenylin ® ¶ Dytan ® ¶ Hydramine ® ¶ Nytol ® Pardryl ® ¶ PediaCare Children's Allergy ® Siladryl ® Silphen ® Sominex ® Unisom ®

[ Phenylephrine pronounced as (fen il ef' rin)  Phenylephrine is used to relieve nasal discomfort caused by colds, allergies, and hay fever. It is also used to relieve sinus congestion and pressure. Phenylephrine will relieve symptoms but will not treat the cause of the symptoms or speed recovery. Phenylephrine is in a class of medications called nasal decongestants. It works by reducing swelling of the blood vessels in the nasal passages. How should this medicine be used? Phenylephrine comes as a tablet, a liquid, or a dissolving strip to take by mouth. It is usually taken every 4 hours as needed. Follow the directions on your prescription label or the package label carefully, and ask your doctor or pharmacist to explain any part you do not understand. Take phenylephrine exactly as directed. Do not take more or less of it or take it more often than prescribed by your doctor or directed on the label. Phenylephrine comes alone and in combination with other medications. Ask your doctor or pharmacist for advice on which product is best for your symptoms. Check nonprescription cough and cold product labels carefully before using two or more products at the same time. These products may contain the same active ingredient(s) and taking them together could cause you to receive an overdose. This is especially important if you will be giving cough and cold medications to a child. Nonprescription cough and cold combination products, including products that contain phenylephrine, can cause serious side effects or death in young children. Do not give these products to children younger than 4 years of age. If you give these products to children 4 to 11 years of age, use caution and follow the package directions carefully. If you are giving phenylephrine or a combination product that contains phenylephrine to a child, read the package label carefully to be sure that it is the right product for a child of that age. Do not give phenylephrine products that are made for adults to children. Before you give a phenylephrine product to a child, check the package label to find out how much medication the child should receive. Give the dose that matches the child's age on the chart. Ask the child's doctor if you don't know how much medication to give the child. If you are taking the liquid, do not use a household spoon to measure your dose. Use the measuring spoon or cup that came with the medication or use a spoon made especially for measuring medication. If your symptoms do not get better within 7 days or if you have a fever, stop taking phenylephrine and call your doctor. If you are taking the dissolving strips, place one strip on your tongue and allow it to dissolve. Other uses for this medicine This medication may be prescribed for other uses; ask your doctor or pharmacist for more information. What special precautions should I follow? Before taking phenylephrine, tell your doctor and pharmacist if you are allergic to phenylephrine, any other medications, or any of the ingredients in phenylephrine preparations. do not take phenylephrine if you are taking a monoamine oxidase (MAO) inhibitor, such as isocarboxazid (Marplan), phenelzine (Nardil), selegiline (Eldepryl, Emsam, Zelapar), and tranylcypromine (Parnate), or if you have stopped taking one of these medications within the past 2 weeks. tell your doctor and pharmacist what other prescription and nonprescription medications, vitamins, nutritional supplements, and herbal products you are taking or plan to take. tell your doctor if you have or have ever had high blood pressure, diabetes, trouble urinating because of an enlarged prostate gland, or thyroid or heart disease. tell your doctor if you are pregnant, plan to become pregnant, or are breast-feeding. If you become pregnant while taking phenylephrine, call your doctor. if you are having surgery, including dental surgery, tell the doctor or dentist that you are taking phenylephrine. if you have phenylketonuria (PKU, an inherited condition in which a special diet must be followed to prevent damage to your brain that can cause severe intellectual disability), you should know that some phenylephrine products may be sweetened with aspartame, a source of phenylalanine. What special dietary instructions should I follow? Unless your doctor tells you otherwise, continue your normal diet. What should I do if I forget a dose? This medication is usually taken as needed. If your doctor has told you to take phenylephrine regularly, take the missed dose as soon as you remember it. However, if it is almost time for the next dose, skip the missed dose and continue your regular dosing schedule. Do not take a double dose to make up for a missed one. What side effects can this medication cause? Phenylephrine may cause side effects. Some side effects can be serious. If you experience any of these symptoms, stop using phenylephrine and call your doctor: nervousness dizziness sleeplessness Phenylephrine may cause other side effects. Call your doctor if you have any unusual problems while taking this medication. If you experience a serious side effect, you or your doctor may send a report to the Food and Drug Administration's (FDA) MedWatch Adverse Event Reporting program online ( http://www.fda.gov/Safety/MedWatch ) or by phone (1-800-332-1088). What should I know about storage and disposal of this medication? Keep this medication in the container it came in, tightly closed, and out of reach of children. Store it at room temperature and away from excess heat and moisture (not in the bathroom). It is important to keep all medication out of sight and reach of children as many containers (such as weekly pill minders and those for eye drops, creams, patches, and inhalers) are not child-resistant and young children can open them easily. To protect young children from poisoning, always lock safety caps and immediately place the medication in a safe location – one that is up and away and out of their sight and reach. http://www.upandaway.org Unneeded medications should be disposed of in special ways to ensure that pets, children, and other people cannot consume them. However, you should not flush this medication down the toilet. Instead, the best way to dispose of your medication is through a medicine take-back program. Talk to your pharmacist or contact your local garbage/recycling department to learn about take-back programs in your community. See the FDA's Safe Disposal of Medicines website ( http://goo.gl/c4Rm4p ) for more information if you do not have access to a take-back program. In case of emergency/overdose In case of overdose, call the poison control helpline at 1-800-222-1222. Information is also available online at https://www.poisonhelp.org/help . If the victim has collapsed, had a seizure, has trouble breathing, or can't be awakened, immediately call emergency services at 911. What other information should I know? Ask your pharmacist any questions you have about phenylephrine. It is important for you to keep a written list of all of the prescription and nonprescription (over-the-counter) medicines you are taking, as well as any products such as vitamins, minerals, or other dietary supplements. You should bring this list with you each time you visit a doctor or if you are admitted to a hospital. It is also important information to carry with you in case of emergencies. Brand names Children's Sudafed PE Nasal Decongestant ® Lusonal ® § PediaCare Children's Decongestant ® Sudafed PE Congestion ® Suphedrin PE ®

[ Pseudoephedrine pronounced as (soo doe e fed' rin)  Pseudoephedrine is used to relieve nasal congestion caused by colds, allergies, and hay fever. It is also used to temporarily relieve sinus congestion and pressure. Pseudoephedrine will relieve symptoms but will not treat the cause of the symptoms or speed recovery. Pseudoephedrine is in a class of medications called nasal decongestants. It works by causing narrowing of the blood vessels in the nasal passages. How should this medicine be used? Pseudoephedrine comes as a regular tablet, a 12-hour extended-release (long-acting) tablet, a 24-hour extended-release tablet, and a solution (liquid) to be taken by mouth. The regular tablets and liquid are usually taken every 4 to 6 hours. The 12-hour extended-release tablets usually are taken every 12 hours, and you should not take more than two doses in a 24-hour period. The 24-hour extended-release tablets usually are taken once a day, and you should not take more than one dose in a 24-hour period. To help prevent trouble sleeping, take the last dose of the day several hours before bedtime. Follow the directions on the package label or on your prescription label carefully, and ask your doctor or pharmacist to explain any part you do not understand. Take pseudoephedrine exactly as directed. Do not take more or less of it or take it more often than prescribed by your doctor or directed on the label. Pseudoephedrine comes alone and in combination with other medications. Ask your doctor or pharmacist for advice on which product is best for your symptoms. Check nonprescription cough and cold product labels carefully before using 2 or more products at the same time. These products may contain the same active ingredient(s) and taking them together could cause you to receive an overdose. This is especially important if you will be giving cough and cold medications to a child. Nonprescription cough and cold combination products, including products that contain pseudoephedrine, can cause serious side effects or death in young children. Do not give nonprescription pseudoephedrine products to children younger than 4 years of age. If you give these products to children 4-11 years of age, use caution and follow the package directions carefully. Do not give pseudoephedrine extended-release tablets to children younger than 12 years of age. If you are giving pseudoephedrine or a combination product that contains pseudoephedrine to a child, read the package label carefully to be sure that it is the right product for a child of that age. Do not give pseudoephedrine products that are made for adults to children. Before you give a pseudoephedrine product to a child, check the package label to find out how much medication the child should receive. Give the dose that matches the child's age on the chart. Ask the child's doctor if you don't know how much medication to give the child. If you are taking the liquid, do not use a household spoon to measure your dose. Use the measuring spoon or cup that came with the medication or use a spoon made especially for measuring medication. If your symptoms do not get better within 7 days or if you have a fever, stop taking pseudoephedrine and call your doctor. Swallow the extended-release tablets whole; do not break, crush, or chew them. Other uses for this medicine This medication is also sometimes used to prevent ear pain and blockage caused by pressure changes during air travel or underwater diving. Talk to your doctor or pharmacist for more information. This medication is sometimes prescribed for other uses; ask your doctor or pharmacist for more information. What special precautions should I follow? Before taking pseudoephedrine, tell your doctor and pharmacist if you are allergic to pseudoephedrine, any other medications, or any of the inactive ingredients in the pseudoephedrine product you plan to take. Check the package label for a list of the ingredients. do not take pseudoephedrine if you are taking a monoamine oxidase (MAO) inhibitor such as isocarboxazid (Marplan), phenelzine (Nardil), selegiline (Eldepryl, Emsam, Zelapar), and tranylcypromine (Parnate), or if you have stopped taking one of these medications within the past 2 weeks. tell your doctor and pharmacist what prescription and nonprescription medications, vitamins, nutritional supplements, and herbal products you are taking or plan to take. Be sure to mention medications for diet or appetite control, asthma, colds, or high blood pressure. tell your doctor if you have or have ever had high blood pressure, glaucoma (a condition in which increased pressure in the eye can lead to gradual loss of vision), diabetes, difficulty urinating (due to an enlarged prostate gland), or thyroid or heart disease. If you plan to take the 24-hour extended-release tablets, tell your doctor if you have had a narrowing or blockage of your digestive system. tell your doctor if you are pregnant, plan to become pregnant, or are breast-feeding. If you become pregnant while taking pseudoephedrine, call your doctor. if you are having surgery, including dental surgery, tell the doctor or dentist that you are taking pseudoephedrine. What special dietary instructions should I follow? Foods and drinks that contain large amounts of caffeine can make the side effects of pseudoephedrine worse. What should I do if I forget a dose? This medication is usually taken as needed. If your doctor has told you to take pseudoephedrine regularly, take the missed dose as soon as you remember it. However, if it is almost time for the next dose, skip the missed dose and continue your regular dosing schedule. Do not take a double dose to make up for a missed one. What side effects can this medication cause? Pseudoephedrine may cause side effects. Tell your doctor if any of these symptoms are severe or do not go away: restlessness nausea vomiting weakness headache Some side effects can be serious. If you experience any of the following symptoms, call your doctor immediately: nervousness dizziness difficulty sleeping stomach pain difficulty breathing fast, pounding, or irregular heartbeat Pseudoephedrine may cause other side effects. Call your doctor if you have any unusual problems while you are taking this medication. If you experience a serious side effect, you or your doctor may send a report to the Food and Drug Administration's (FDA) MedWatch Adverse Event Reporting program online ( http://www.fda.gov/Safety/MedWatch ) or by phone (1-800-332-1088). What should I know about storage and disposal of this medication? Keep this medication in the container it came in, tightly closed, and out of reach of children. Store it at room temperature and away from excess heat and moisture (not in the bathroom). Unneeded medications should be disposed of in special ways to ensure that pets, children, and other people cannot consume them. However, you should not flush this medication down the toilet. Instead, the best way to dispose of your medication is through a medicine take-back program. Talk to your pharmacist or contact your local garbage/recycling department to learn about take-back programs in your community. See the FDA's Safe Disposal of Medicines website ( http://goo.gl/c4Rm4p ) for more information if you do not have access to a take-back program. It is important to keep all medication out of sight and reach of children as many containers (such as weekly pill minders and those for eye drops, creams, patches, and inhalers) are not child-resistant and young children can open them easily. To protect young children from poisoning, always lock safety caps and immediately place the medication in a safe location – one that is up and away and out of their sight and reach. http://www.upandaway.org In case of emergency/overdose In case of overdose, call the poison control helpline at 1-800-222-1222. Information is also available online at https://www.poisonhelp.org/help . If the victim has collapsed, had a seizure, has trouble breathing, or can't be awakened, immediately call emergency services at 911. What other information should I know? If you are taking the 24-hour extended-release tablets, you may notice something that looks like a tablet in your stool. This is just the empty tablet shell, and this does not mean that you did not get your complete dose of medication. Ask your pharmacist any questions you have about pseudoephedrine. It is important for you to keep a written list of all of the prescription and nonprescription (over-the-counter) medicines you are taking, as well as any products such as vitamins, minerals, or other dietary supplements. You should bring this list with you each time you visit a doctor or if you are admitted to a hospital. It is also important information to carry with you in case of emergencies. Brand names Afrinol ® ¶ Cenafed ® ¶ Children's Sudafed Nasal Decongestant ® Congestaclear ® ¶ Efidac ® ¶ Myfedrine ® ¶ Pseudocot ® ¶ Ridafed ® ¶ Silfedrine ® Sudafed 12/24 Hour ® Sudafed Congestion ® Sudodrin ® ¶ SudoGest ® Sudrine ® ¶ Superfed ® ¶ Suphedrin ® Allegra-D® (as a combination product containing Fexofenadine, Pseudoephedrine)

[ Pseudoephedrine pronounced as (soo doe e fed' rin)  Pseudoephedrine is used to relieve nasal congestion caused by colds, allergies, and hay fever. It is also used to temporarily relieve sinus congestion and pressure. Pseudoephedrine will relieve symptoms but will not treat the cause of the symptoms or speed recovery. Pseudoephedrine is in a class of medications called nasal decongestants. It works by causing narrowing of the blood vessels in the nasal passages. How should this medicine be used? Pseudoephedrine comes as a regular tablet, a 12-hour extended-release (long-acting) tablet, a 24-hour extended-release tablet, and a solution (liquid) to be taken by mouth. The regular tablets and liquid are usually taken every 4 to 6 hours. The 12-hour extended-release tablets usually are taken every 12 hours, and you should not take more than two doses in a 24-hour period. The 24-hour extended-release tablets usually are taken once a day, and you should not take more than one dose in a 24-hour period. To help prevent trouble sleeping, take the last dose of the day several hours before bedtime. Follow the directions on the package label or on your prescription label carefully, and ask your doctor or pharmacist to explain any part you do not understand. Take pseudoephedrine exactly as directed. Do not take more or less of it or take it more often than prescribed by your doctor or directed on the label. Pseudoephedrine comes alone and in combination with other medications. Ask your doctor or pharmacist for advice on which product is best for your symptoms. Check nonprescription cough and cold product labels carefully before using 2 or more products at the same time. These products may contain the same active ingredient(s) and taking them together could cause you to receive an overdose. This is especially important if you will be giving cough and cold medications to a child. Nonprescription cough and cold combination products, including products that contain pseudoephedrine, can cause serious side effects or death in young children. Do not give nonprescription pseudoephedrine products to children younger than 4 years of age. If you give these products to children 4-11 years of age, use caution and follow the package directions carefully. Do not give pseudoephedrine extended-release tablets to children younger than 12 years of age. If you are giving pseudoephedrine or a combination product that contains pseudoephedrine to a child, read the package label carefully to be sure that it is the right product for a child of that age. Do not give pseudoephedrine products that are made for adults to children. Before you give a pseudoephedrine product to a child, check the package label to find out how much medication the child should receive. Give the dose that matches the child's age on the chart. Ask the child's doctor if you don't know how much medication to give the child. If you are taking the liquid, do not use a household spoon to measure your dose. Use the measuring spoon or cup that came with the medication or use a spoon made especially for measuring medication. If your symptoms do not get better within 7 days or if you have a fever, stop taking pseudoephedrine and call your doctor. Swallow the extended-release tablets whole; do not break, crush, or chew them. Other uses for this medicine This medication is also sometimes used to prevent ear pain and blockage caused by pressure changes during air travel or underwater diving. Talk to your doctor or pharmacist for more information. This medication is sometimes prescribed for other uses; ask your doctor or pharmacist for more information. What special precautions should I follow? Before taking pseudoephedrine, tell your doctor and pharmacist if you are allergic to pseudoephedrine, any other medications, or any of the inactive ingredients in the pseudoephedrine product you plan to take. Check the package label for a list of the ingredients. do not take pseudoephedrine if you are taking a monoamine oxidase (MAO) inhibitor such as isocarboxazid (Marplan), phenelzine (Nardil), selegiline (Eldepryl, Emsam, Zelapar), and tranylcypromine (Parnate), or if you have stopped taking one of these medications within the past 2 weeks. tell your doctor and pharmacist what prescription and nonprescription medications, vitamins, nutritional supplements, and herbal products you are taking or plan to take. Be sure to mention medications for diet or appetite control, asthma, colds, or high blood pressure. tell your doctor if you have or have ever had high blood pressure, glaucoma (a condition in which increased pressure in the eye can lead to gradual loss of vision), diabetes, difficulty urinating (due to an enlarged prostate gland), or thyroid or heart disease. If you plan to take the 24-hour extended-release tablets, tell your doctor if you have had a narrowing or blockage of your digestive system. tell your doctor if you are pregnant, plan to become pregnant, or are breast-feeding. If you become pregnant while taking pseudoephedrine, call your doctor. if you are having surgery, including dental surgery, tell the doctor or dentist that you are taking pseudoephedrine. What special dietary instructions should I follow? Foods and drinks that contain large amounts of caffeine can make the side effects of pseudoephedrine worse. What should I do if I forget a dose? This medication is usually taken as needed. If your doctor has told you to take pseudoephedrine regularly, take the missed dose as soon as you remember it. However, if it is almost time for the next dose, skip the missed dose and continue your regular dosing schedule. Do not take a double dose to make up for a missed one. What side effects can this medication cause? Pseudoephedrine may cause side effects. Tell your doctor if any of these symptoms are severe or do not go away: restlessness nausea vomiting weakness headache Some side effects can be serious. If you experience any of the following symptoms, call your doctor immediately: nervousness dizziness difficulty sleeping stomach pain difficulty breathing fast, pounding, or irregular heartbeat Pseudoephedrine may cause other side effects. Call your doctor if you have any unusual problems while you are taking this medication. If you experience a serious side effect, you or your doctor may send a report to the Food and Drug Administration's (FDA) MedWatch Adverse Event Reporting program online ( http://www.fda.gov/Safety/MedWatch ) or by phone (1-800-332-1088). What should I know about storage and disposal of this medication? Keep this medication in the container it came in, tightly closed, and out of reach of children. Store it at room temperature and away from excess heat and moisture (not in the bathroom). Unneeded medications should be disposed of in special ways to ensure that pets, children, and other people cannot consume them. However, you should not flush this medication down the toilet. Instead, the best way to dispose of your medication is through a medicine take-back program. Talk to your pharmacist or contact your local garbage/recycling department to learn about take-back programs in your community. See the FDA's Safe Disposal of Medicines website ( http://goo.gl/c4Rm4p ) for more information if you do not have access to a take-back program. It is important to keep all medication out of sight and reach of children as many containers (such as weekly pill minders and those for eye drops, creams, patches, and inhalers) are not child-resistant and young children can open them easily. To protect young children from poisoning, always lock safety caps and immediately place the medication in a safe location – one that is up and away and out of their sight and reach. http://www.upandaway.org In case of emergency/overdose In case of overdose, call the poison control helpline at 1-800-222-1222. Information is also available online at https://www.poisonhelp.org/help . If the victim has collapsed, had a seizure, has trouble breathing, or can't be awakened, immediately call emergency services at 911. What other information should I know? If you are taking the 24-hour extended-release tablets, you may notice something that looks like a tablet in your stool. This is just the empty tablet shell, and this does not mean that you did not get your complete dose of medication. Ask your pharmacist any questions you have about pseudoephedrine. It is important for you to keep a written list of all of the prescription and nonprescription (over-the-counter) medicines you are taking, as well as any products such as vitamins, minerals, or other dietary supplements. You should bring this list with you each time you visit a doctor or if you are admitted to a hospital. It is also important information to carry with you in case of emergencies. Brand names Afrinol ® ¶ Cenafed ® ¶ Children's Sudafed Nasal Decongestant ® Congestaclear ® ¶ Efidac ® ¶ Myfedrine ® ¶ Pseudocot ® ¶ Ridafed ® ¶ Silfedrine ® Sudafed 12/24 Hour ® Sudafed Congestion ® Sudodrin ® ¶ SudoGest ® Sudrine ® ¶ Superfed ® ¶ Suphedrin ® Allegra-D® (as a combination product containing Fexofenadine, Pseudoephedrine)

[ Methyldopa pronounced as (meth ill doe' pa)  Methyldopa is used to treat high blood pressure. Methyldopa is in a class of medications called antihypertensives. It works by relaxing the blood vessels so that blood can flow more easily through the body. High blood pressure is a common condition and when not treated, can cause damage to the brain, heart, blood vessels, kidneys and other parts of the body. Damage to these organs may cause heart disease, a heart attack, heart failure, stroke, kidney failure, loss of vision, and other problems. In addition to taking medication, making lifestyle changes will also help to control your blood pressure. These changes include eating a diet that is low in fat and salt, maintaining a healthy weight, exercising at least 30 minutes most days, not smoking, and using alcohol in moderation. How should this medicine be used? Methyldopa comes as a tablet and a liquid to take by mouth. It usually is taken two to four times a day. To help you remember to take methyldopa, take it around the same times every day. Follow the directions on your prescription label carefully, and ask your doctor or pharmacist to explain any part you do not understand. Take methyldopa exactly as directed. Do not take more or less of it or take it more often than prescribed by your doctor. Shake the liquid well before each dose to mix the medication evenly. Use a dose-measuring spoon or cup to measure the correct amount of liquid for each dose, not a regular household spoon. Methyldopa controls high blood pressure but does not cure it. Continue to take methyldopa even if you feel well. Do not stop taking methyldopa without talking to your doctor. If you suddenly stop taking methyldopa, your blood pressure may increase and you may experience side effects. Your doctor will decrease your dose gradually. Other uses for this medicine This medication may be prescribed for other uses. Ask your doctor or pharmacist for more information. What special precautions should I follow? Before taking methyldopa, tell your doctor and pharmacist if you are allergic to methyldopa, any other medications, sulfites, or any of the ingredients in methyldopa tablets or liquid. Ask your doctor or pharmacist for a list of the ingredients. tell your doctor if you are taking a monoamine oxidase (MAOs) inhibitor such as isocarboxazid (Marplan), phenelzine (Nardil), selegiline (Eldepryl, Emsam, Zelapar), and tranylcypromine (Parnate). Your doctor will probably tell you not to take methyldopa. tell your doctor and pharmacist what prescription and nonprescription medications, vitamins, nutritional supplements, and herbal products you are taking or plan to take. Be sure to mention any of the following: haloperidol (Haldol), levodopa (in Sinemet, in Stalevo), lithium (Lithobid), other medications for high blood pressure, and tolbutamide. Your doctor may need to change the doses of your medications or monitor you carefully for side effects. do not take with iron supplements or vitamins containing iron. tell you doctor if you have or have ever had kidney or liver disease, including hepatitis or cirrhosis. tell your doctor if you are pregnant, plan to become pregnant, or are breast-feeding. If you become pregnant while taking methyldopa, call your doctor. talk to your doctor about the risks of taking methyldopa if you are 65 years of age or older. Older adults should not usually take methyldopa because it is not as safe as other medications that can be used to treat the same condition. if you are having surgery, including dental surgery, tell the doctor or dentist that you are taking methyldopa. you should know that this medication may make you drowsy. Do not drive a car or operate machinery for 48-72 hours after you begin to take methyldopa or after your dose is increased. What special dietary instructions should I follow? Your doctor may prescribe a low-salt or low-sodium diet. Follow these directions carefully. What should I do if I forget a dose? Take the missed dose as soon as you remember it. However, if it is almost time for the next dose, skip the missed dose and continue your regular dosing schedule. Do not take a double dose to make up for a missed one. What side effects can this medication cause? Methyldopa may cause side effects. Tell your doctor if any of these symptoms are severe or do not go away: headache muscle weakness swollen ankles or feet upset stomach vomiting diarrhea gas dry mouth rash Some side effects can be serious. If you experience any of these symptoms, call your doctor immediately: unexplained fever extreme tiredness yellowing of the skin or eyes Methyldopa may cause other side effects. Call your doctor if you have any unusual problems while you are taking this medication. If you experience a serious side effect, you or your doctor may send a report to the Food and Drug Administration's (FDA) MedWatch Adverse Event Reporting program online ( http://www.fda.gov/Safety/MedWatch ) or by phone (1-800-332-1088). What should I know about storage and disposal of this medication? Keep this medication in the container it came in, tightly closed, and out of reach of children. Store tablets at room temperature and away from excess heat and moisture (not in the bathroom). The liquid may be stored in the refrigerator or at room temperature. Unneeded medications should be disposed of in special ways to ensure that pets, children, and other people cannot consume them. However, you should not flush this medication down the toilet. Instead, the best way to dispose of your medication is through a medicine take-back program. Talk to your pharmacist or contact your local garbage/recycling department to learn about take-back programs in your community. See the FDA's Safe Disposal of Medicines website ( http://goo.gl/c4Rm4p ) for more information if you do not have access to a take-back program. It is important to keep all medication out of sight and reach of children as many containers (such as weekly pill minders and those for eye drops, creams, patches, and inhalers) are not child-resistant and young children can open them easily. To protect young children from poisoning, always lock safety caps and immediately place the medication in a safe location – one that is up and away and out of their sight and reach. http://www.upandaway.org In case of emergency/overdose In case of overdose, call the poison control helpline at 1-800-222-1222. Information is also available online at https://www.poisonhelp.org/help . If the victim has collapsed, had a seizure, has trouble breathing, or can't be awakened, immediately call emergency services at 911. What other information should I know? Keep all appointments with your doctor and the laboratory. Your blood pressure should be checked regularly to determine your response to methyldopa. Your doctor may order certain lab tests to monitor your red blood cell count and liver function. Methyldopa may cause your urine to darken when it is exposed to air. This effect is harmless. Do not let anyone else take your medication. Ask your pharmacist any questions you have about refilling your prescription. It is important for you to keep a written list of all of the prescription and nonprescription (over-the-counter) medicines you are taking, as well as any products such as vitamins, minerals, or other dietary supplements. You should bring this list with you each time you visit a doctor or if you are admitted to a hospital. It is also important information to carry with you in case of emergencies. Brand names Aldomet ® ¶

[ Chlorothiazide pronounced as (klor oh thye' a zide)  Chlorothiazide is used alone or in combination with other medications to treat high blood pressure. Chlorothiazide is used to treat edema (fluid retention; excess fluid held in body tissues) caused by various medical problems, including heart, kidney, and liver disease and to treat edema caused by using certain medications including estrogen and corticosteroids. Chlorothiazide is in a class of medications called diuretics ('water pills'). It works by causing the kidneys to get rid of unneeded water and salt from the body into the urine. High blood pressure is a common condition, and when not treated it can cause damage to the brain, heart, blood vessels, kidneys, and other parts of the body. Damage to these organs may cause heart disease, a heart attack, heart failure, stroke, kidney failure, loss of vision, and other problems. In addition to taking medication, making lifestyle changes will also help to control your blood pressure. These changes include eating a diet that is low in fat and salt, maintaining a healthy weight, exercising at least 30 minutes most days, not smoking, and using alcohol in moderation. How should this medicine be used? Chlorothiazide comes as a tablet and suspension (liquid) to take by mouth. It usually is taken once or twice a day. When used to treat hypertension, take chlorothiazide around the same time(s) every day. When used to treat edema, chlorothiazide may be taken daily or only on certain days of the week. Take this medication with meals or a snack. Follow the directions on your prescription label carefully, and ask your doctor or pharmacist to explain any part you do not understand. Take chlorothiazide exactly as directed. Do not take more or less of it or take it more often than prescribed by your doctor. Chlorothizide controls high blood pressure and edema but does not cure these conditions. Continue to take chlorothiazide even if you feel well. Do not stop taking chlorothiazide without talking to your doctor. Other uses for this medicine Chlorothiazide may also be used to treat patients with diabetes insipidus and certain electrolyte disturbances and to prevent kidney stones in patients with high levels of calcium in their blood. Talk to your doctor about the possible risks of using this medicine for your condition. This medicine is sometimes prescribed for other uses; ask your doctor or pharmacist for more information. What special precautions should I follow? Before taking chlorothiazide, tell your doctor and pharmacist if you are allergic to chlorothiazide, sulfonamide antibiotic medications, penicillin, any other medications, or any of the ingredients in chlorothiazide tablets or suspension. Ask your pharmacist or check the patient information for a list of the ingredients. tell your doctor and pharmacist what prescription and nonprescription medications, vitamins, nutritional supplements, and herbal products you are taking or plan to take. Be sure to mention any of the following: barbiturates such as phenobarbital and secobarbital (Seconal); corticosteroids such as betamethasone (Celestone), budesonide (Entocort), cortisone (Cortone), dexamethasone (Decadron, Dexpak, Dexasone, others), fludrocortisone (Floriner), hydrocortisone (Cortef, Hydrocortone), methylprednisolone (Medrol), prednisolone (Prelone, others), prednisone (Deltasone, Meticorten, Sterapred, others), and triamcinolone (Aristocort, Azmacort); corticotropin (ACTH H.P., Acthar Gel); digoxin (Lanoxin); insulin and oral medications for diabetes, lithium (Lithobid), medications for high blood pressure or pain; and nonsteroidal anti-inflammatory drugs (NSAIDs) such as ibuprofen (Advil, Motrin, others) and naproxen (Aleve, Naprosyn, others). Your doctor may need to change the doses of your medications or monitor you carefully for side effects. if you are taking cholestyramine or colestipol, take them 1 hour before or 4 hours after taking chlorothiazide. tell your doctor if you have kidney disease. Your doctor may tell you not to take chlorothiazide. tell your doctor if you have or have ever had asthma, diabetes, high cholesterol, systemic lupus erythematosus (SLE, a chronic inflammatory condition), gout, or liver, or parathyroid disease. tell your doctor if you are pregnant, plan to become pregnant, or are breastfeeding. If you become pregnant while taking chlorothiazide, call your doctor immediately. plan to avoid unnecessary or prolonged exposure to sunlight and to wear protective clothing, sunglasses, and sunscreen. Chlorothiazide may make your skin sensitive to sunlight. you should know that chlorothiazide may cause dizziness, lightheadedness, and fainting when you get up too quickly from a lying position. This is more common when you first start taking chlorothiazide. To avoid this problem, get out of bed slowly, resting your feet on the floor for a few minutes before standing up. Alcohol can add to these side effects. What special dietary instructions should I follow? If your doctor prescribes a low-salt or low-sodium diet, or to eat or drink increased amounts of potassium-rich foods (e.g., bananas, prunes, raisins, and orange juice) in your diet, follow these instructions carefully. What should I do if I forget a dose? Take the missed dose as soon as you remember it. However, if it is almost time for your next dose, skip the missed dose and continue your regular dosing schedule. Do not take a double dose to make up for a missed one. What side effects can this medication cause? Tell your doctor if any of these symptoms are severe or do not go away: frequent urination muscle spasms blurred vision constipation diarrhea vomiting loss of appetite headache hair loss Some side effects can be serious. If you experience any of these symptoms, call your doctor immediately or seek emergency medical treatment: dry mouth; thirst; nausea; vomiting; weakness, tiredness; drowsiness; restlessness; confusion; muscle weakness, pain, or cramps; fast heartbeat and other signs of dehydration and electrolyte imbalance fever blisters or peeling skin difficulty breathing or swallowing hives rash itching yellowing of the skin or eyes If you experience a serious side effect, you or your doctor may send a report to the Food and Drug Administration's (FDA) MedWatch Adverse Event Reporting program online ( http://www.fda.gov/Safety/MedWatch ) or by phone (1-800-332-1088). What should I know about storage and disposal of this medication? Keep this medicine in the container it came in, tightly closed, and out of reach of children. Store it at room temperature and away from excess heat and moisture (not in the bathroom). Do not let the oral suspension freeze. Unneeded medications should be disposed of in special ways to ensure that pets, children, and other people cannot consume them. However, you should not flush this medication down the toilet. Instead, the best way to dispose of your medication is through a medicine take-back program. Talk to your pharmacist or contact your local garbage/recycling department to learn about take-back programs in your community. See the FDA's Safe Disposal of Medicines website ( http://goo.gl/c4Rm4p ) for more information if you do not have access to a take-back program. It is important to keep all medication out of sight and reach of children as many containers (such as weekly pill minders and those for eye drops, creams, patches, and inhalers) are not child-resistant and young children can open them easily. To protect young children from poisoning, always lock safety caps and immediately place the medication in a safe location – one that is up and away and out of their sight and reach. http://www.upandaway.org In case of emergency/overdose In case of overdose, call the poison control helpline at 1-800-222-1222. Information is also available online at https://www.poisonhelp.org/help . If the victim has collapsed, had a seizure, has trouble breathing, or can't be awakened, immediately call emergency services at 911. What other information should I know? Keep all appointments with your doctor and the laboratory. Your blood pressure should be checked regularly, and blood tests should be done occasionally. Before having any laboratory test, tell your doctor and the laboratory personnel that you are taking chlorothiazide. Do not let anyone else take your medicine. Ask your pharmacist any questions you have about refilling your prescription. It is important for you to keep a written list of all of the prescription and nonprescription (over-the-counter) medicines you are taking, as well as any products such as vitamins, minerals, or other dietary supplements. You should bring this list with you each time you visit a doctor or if you are admitted to a hospital. It is also important information to carry with you in case of emergencies. Brand names Chlotride ® ¶ Diuril ®

[ Methyldopa pronounced as (meth ill doe' pa)  Methyldopa is used to treat high blood pressure. Methyldopa is in a class of medications called antihypertensives. It works by relaxing the blood vessels so that blood can flow more easily through the body. High blood pressure is a common condition and when not treated, can cause damage to the brain, heart, blood vessels, kidneys and other parts of the body. Damage to these organs may cause heart disease, a heart attack, heart failure, stroke, kidney failure, loss of vision, and other problems. In addition to taking medication, making lifestyle changes will also help to control your blood pressure. These changes include eating a diet that is low in fat and salt, maintaining a healthy weight, exercising at least 30 minutes most days, not smoking, and using alcohol in moderation. How should this medicine be used? Methyldopa comes as a tablet and a liquid to take by mouth. It usually is taken two to four times a day. To help you remember to take methyldopa, take it around the same times every day. Follow the directions on your prescription label carefully, and ask your doctor or pharmacist to explain any part you do not understand. Take methyldopa exactly as directed. Do not take more or less of it or take it more often than prescribed by your doctor. Shake the liquid well before each dose to mix the medication evenly. Use a dose-measuring spoon or cup to measure the correct amount of liquid for each dose, not a regular household spoon. Methyldopa controls high blood pressure but does not cure it. Continue to take methyldopa even if you feel well. Do not stop taking methyldopa without talking to your doctor. If you suddenly stop taking methyldopa, your blood pressure may increase and you may experience side effects. Your doctor will decrease your dose gradually. Other uses for this medicine This medication may be prescribed for other uses. Ask your doctor or pharmacist for more information. What special precautions should I follow? Before taking methyldopa, tell your doctor and pharmacist if you are allergic to methyldopa, any other medications, sulfites, or any of the ingredients in methyldopa tablets or liquid. Ask your doctor or pharmacist for a list of the ingredients. tell your doctor if you are taking a monoamine oxidase (MAOs) inhibitor such as isocarboxazid (Marplan), phenelzine (Nardil), selegiline (Eldepryl, Emsam, Zelapar), and tranylcypromine (Parnate). Your doctor will probably tell you not to take methyldopa. tell your doctor and pharmacist what prescription and nonprescription medications, vitamins, nutritional supplements, and herbal products you are taking or plan to take. Be sure to mention any of the following: haloperidol (Haldol), levodopa (in Sinemet, in Stalevo), lithium (Lithobid), other medications for high blood pressure, and tolbutamide. Your doctor may need to change the doses of your medications or monitor you carefully for side effects. do not take with iron supplements or vitamins containing iron. tell you doctor if you have or have ever had kidney or liver disease, including hepatitis or cirrhosis. tell your doctor if you are pregnant, plan to become pregnant, or are breast-feeding. If you become pregnant while taking methyldopa, call your doctor. talk to your doctor about the risks of taking methyldopa if you are 65 years of age or older. Older adults should not usually take methyldopa because it is not as safe as other medications that can be used to treat the same condition. if you are having surgery, including dental surgery, tell the doctor or dentist that you are taking methyldopa. you should know that this medication may make you drowsy. Do not drive a car or operate machinery for 48-72 hours after you begin to take methyldopa or after your dose is increased. What special dietary instructions should I follow? Your doctor may prescribe a low-salt or low-sodium diet. Follow these directions carefully. What should I do if I forget a dose? Take the missed dose as soon as you remember it. However, if it is almost time for the next dose, skip the missed dose and continue your regular dosing schedule. Do not take a double dose to make up for a missed one. What side effects can this medication cause? Methyldopa may cause side effects. Tell your doctor if any of these symptoms are severe or do not go away: headache muscle weakness swollen ankles or feet upset stomach vomiting diarrhea gas dry mouth rash Some side effects can be serious. If you experience any of these symptoms, call your doctor immediately: unexplained fever extreme tiredness yellowing of the skin or eyes Methyldopa may cause other side effects. Call your doctor if you have any unusual problems while you are taking this medication. If you experience a serious side effect, you or your doctor may send a report to the Food and Drug Administration's (FDA) MedWatch Adverse Event Reporting program online ( http://www.fda.gov/Safety/MedWatch ) or by phone (1-800-332-1088). What should I know about storage and disposal of this medication? Keep this medication in the container it came in, tightly closed, and out of reach of children. Store tablets at room temperature and away from excess heat and moisture (not in the bathroom). The liquid may be stored in the refrigerator or at room temperature. Unneeded medications should be disposed of in special ways to ensure that pets, children, and other people cannot consume them. However, you should not flush this medication down the toilet. Instead, the best way to dispose of your medication is through a medicine take-back program. Talk to your pharmacist or contact your local garbage/recycling department to learn about take-back programs in your community. See the FDA's Safe Disposal of Medicines website ( http://goo.gl/c4Rm4p ) for more information if you do not have access to a take-back program. It is important to keep all medication out of sight and reach of children as many containers (such as weekly pill minders and those for eye drops, creams, patches, and inhalers) are not child-resistant and young children can open them easily. To protect young children from poisoning, always lock safety caps and immediately place the medication in a safe location – one that is up and away and out of their sight and reach. http://www.upandaway.org In case of emergency/overdose In case of overdose, call the poison control helpline at 1-800-222-1222. Information is also available online at https://www.poisonhelp.org/help . If the victim has collapsed, had a seizure, has trouble breathing, or can't be awakened, immediately call emergency services at 911. What other information should I know? Keep all appointments with your doctor and the laboratory. Your blood pressure should be checked regularly to determine your response to methyldopa. Your doctor may order certain lab tests to monitor your red blood cell count and liver function. Methyldopa may cause your urine to darken when it is exposed to air. This effect is harmless. Do not let anyone else take your medication. Ask your pharmacist any questions you have about refilling your prescription. It is important for you to keep a written list of all of the prescription and nonprescription (over-the-counter) medicines you are taking, as well as any products such as vitamins, minerals, or other dietary supplements. You should bring this list with you each time you visit a doctor or if you are admitted to a hospital. It is also important information to carry with you in case of emergencies. Brand names Aldomet ® ¶



[ Simethicone pronounced as (sye meth' i kone) To use the sharing features on this page, please enable JavaScript. Why is this medication prescribed? How should this medicine be used? What special precautions should I follow? What should I do if I forget a dose? What side effects can this medication cause? What should I know about storage and disposal of this medication? What other information should I know? Brand names Why is this medication prescribed? Simethicone is used to treat the symptoms of gas such as uncomfortable or painful pressure, fullness, and bloating. This medication is sometimes prescribed for other uses; ask your doctor or pharmacist for more information. How should this medicine be used? Simethicone comes as regular tablets, chewable tablets, capsules, and liquid to take by mouth. It usually is taken four times a day, after meals and at bedtime. Follow the directions on the package or on your prescription label carefully, and ask your doctor or pharmacist to explain any part you do not understand. Take simethicone exactly as directed. Do not take more or less of it or take it more often than prescribed by your doctor. Swallow the regular tablets and capsules whole. Chewable tablets should be chewed thoroughly before being swallowed; do not swallow them whole. Do not take more than six simethicone tablets or eight simethicone capsules each day unless your doctor tells you to. The liquid may be mixed with 1 ounce (30 milliliters) of cool water or infant formula. What special precautions should I follow? Before taking simethicone, tell your doctor and pharmacist if you are allergic to simethicone or any other drugs. tell your doctor and pharmacist what prescription and nonprescription medications you are taking, including vitamins. tell your doctor if you are pregnant, plan to become pregnant, or are breast-feeding. If you become pregnant while taking simethicone, call your doctor. What should I do if I forget a dose? If you are taking simethicone on a regular schedule, take the missed dose as soon you remember it. However, if it is almost time for the next dose, skip the missed dose and continue your regular dosing schedule. Do not take a double dose to make up for a missed one. What side effects can this medication cause? When taken as directed, simethicone usually has no side effects. What should I know about storage and disposal of this medication? Keep this medication in the container it came in, tightly closed, and out of reach of children. Store it at room temperature and away from excess heat and moisture (not in the bathroom). It is important to keep all medication out of sight and reach of children as many containers (such as weekly pill minders and those for eye drops, creams, patches, and inhalers) are not child-resistant and young children can open them easily. To protect young children from poisoning, always lock safety caps and immediately place the medication in a safe location – one that is up and away and out of their sight and reach. http://www.upandaway.org Unneeded medications should be disposed of in special ways to ensure that pets, children, and other people cannot consume them. However, you should not flush this medication down the toilet. Instead, the best way to dispose of your medication is through a medicine take-back program. Talk to your pharmacist or contact your local garbage/recycling department to learn about take-back programs in your community. See the FDA's Safe Disposal of Medicines website ( http://goo.gl/c4Rm4p ) for more information if you do not have access to a take-back program. What other information should I know? Ask your doctor or pharmacist any questions you have about taking this medicine. It is important for you to keep a written list of all of the prescription and nonprescription (over-the-counter) medicines you are taking, as well as any products such as vitamins, minerals, or other dietary supplements. You should bring this list with you each time you visit a doctor or if you are admitted to a hospital. It is also important information to carry with you in case of emergencies. Brand names Alka-Seltzer ® Anti-Gas Colic Drops Colicon ® Degas ® Flatulex ® Drops Gas Aide ® Gas-X ® Genasyme ® Maalox ® Anti-Gas Majorcon ® Micon-80 ® Mylanta ® Gas Mylaval ® Mylicon ® Mytab ® Gas Phazyme ® SonoRx ®









[ Alendronate pronounced as (a len' droe nate)  Alendronate is used to treat and prevent osteoporosis (a condition in which the bones become thin and weak and break easily) in women who have undergone menopause (''change of life,'' end of menstrual periods) and to treat osteoporosis in men. Alendronate is also used to treat osteoporosis in men and women who are taking corticosteroids (a type of medication that may cause osteoporosis in some patients). Alendronate is also used to treat Paget's disease of bone (a condition in which the bones are soft and weak and may be deformed, painful, or easily broken). Alendronate is in a class of medications called bisphosphonates. It works by preventing bone breakdown and increasing bone density (thickness). How should this medicine be used? Alendronate comes as a tablet, an effervescent tablet, and a solution (liquid) to take by mouth. The solution is usually taken on an empty stomach once a week in the morning. The 5-mg and 10-mg tablets are usually taken on an empty stomach once a day in the morning, and the 35-mg and 70-mg tablets are usually taken on an empty stomach once a week in the morning. The 40-mg tablets are usually taken once a day in the morning for six months to treat Paget's disease of bone. The effervescent tablets are usually taken on an empty stomach once weekly in the morning. Follow the directions on your prescription label carefully, and ask your doctor or pharmacist to explain any part you do not understand. Take alendronate exactly as directed. Do not take more or less of it or take it more often than prescribed by your doctor. Alendronate may not work properly and may damage the esophagus (tube between the mouth and stomach) or cause sores in the mouth if it is not taken according to the following instructions. Tell your doctor if you do not understand, you do not think you will remember, or you are unable to follow these instructions: You must take alendronate just after you get out of bed in the morning, before you eat or drink anything. Never take alendronate at bedtime or before you wake up and get out of bed for the day. After you take alendronate, do not eat, drink, or take any other medications (including vitamins or antacids) for at least 30 minutes. Do not lie down for at least 30 minutes after you take alendronate. Sit upright or stand upright until at least 30 minutes have passed and you have eaten your first food of the day. If you are taking the alendronate tablets, swallow the tablet with a full glass (6 to 8 ounces [180 to 240 mL]) of plain water. Never take alendronate tablets with tea, coffee, juice, milk, mineral water, sparkling water, or any liquid other than plain water. Swallow the tablets whole; do not split, chew or crush them. Do not suck on the tablets. If you are taking the alendronate oral solution, drink at least 2 ounces (60 milliliters [1/4 cup]) of water after taking alendronate oral solution. Never take alendronate solution with tea, coffee, juice, milk, mineral water, sparkling water, or any liquid other than plain water. If you are taking the alendronate effervescent tablets, dissolve one effervescent tablet in a full glass (4 ounces [120 milliliters]) of plain, non-carbonated drinking water before drinking. Never dissolve alendronate effervescent tablets with tea, coffee, juice, milk, mineral water, sparkling water, or any liquid other than plain water. Wait at least 5 minutes after the effervescence stops, stir the solution for 10 seconds and drink it. Do not swallow, suck, or chew on the effervescent tablets. Alendronate controls osteoporosis and Paget's disease of bone but does not cure these conditions. It may take 3 months or longer before your bone density begins to increase. Alendronate helps to treat and prevent osteoporosis only as long as it is taken regularly. Continue to take alendronate even if you feel well. Do not stop taking alendronate without talking to your doctor, but talk to your doctor from time to time about whether you still need to take alendronate. Ask your pharmacist or doctor for a copy of the manufacturer's information for the patient. Other uses for this medicine This medication may be prescribed for other uses; ask your doctor or pharmacist for more information. What special precautions should I follow? Before taking alendronate, tell your doctor and pharmacist if you are allergic to alendronate or any other medications. Tell your doctor and pharmacist what prescription and nonprescription medications, vitamins, nutritional supplements, and herbal products you are taking or plan to take while taking alendronate. Your doctor may need to change the doses of your medications or monitor you carefully for side effects. ; The following nonprescription or herbal products may interact with alendronate: aspirin and other nonsteroidal anti-inflammatory drugs (NSAIDs) [ibuprofen (Advil), Ibu-Tab, Motrin, others), naproxen (Aleve, Naprosyn, others)], mineral oils, calcium supplements, or medications for heartburn and indigestion. Be sure to let your doctor and pharmacist know that you are taking these medications before you start taking alendronate. Do not start any of these medications while taking alendronate without discussing with your healthcare provider. if you are taking any other medications including supplements, vitamins, or antacids by mouth, take them at least 30 minutes after you take alendronate. tell your doctor if you are unable to sit upright or stand upright for at least 30 minutes, if you have or have ever had a low level of calcium in your blood, a risk of breathing in food or fluids into the lungs, or if you have any problems with your esophagus. Your doctor may tell you that you should not take alendronate. tell your doctor if are undergoing radiation therapy or if you are on a sodium-restricted diet (if taking the effervescent tablets); and if you have or have ever had anemia (condition in which the red blood cells do not bring enough oxygen to all the parts of the body); a low level of vitamin D in your body; difficulty swallowing; heartburn; ulcers or other stomach problems; cancer; any type of infection, especially in your mouth; problems with your mouth, teeth, or gums any condition that stops your blood from clotting normally; or dental or kidney disease. tell your doctor if you are pregnant or are breast-feeding. Also tell your doctor if you plan to become pregnant at any time in the future, because alendronate may remain in your body for years after you stop taking it. Call your doctor if you become pregnant during or after your treatment. you should know that alendronate may cause osteonecrosis of the jaw (ONJ, a serious condition of the jaw bone), especially if you have dental surgery or treatment while you are taking the medication. A dentist should examine your teeth and perform any needed treatments, including cleaning or fixing ill-fitted dentures, before you start to take alendronate. Be sure to brush your teeth and clean your mouth properly while you are taking alendronate. Talk to your doctor before having any dental treatments while you are taking this medication. you should know that alendronate may cause severe bone, muscle, or joint pain. You may begin to feel this pain within days, months, or years after you first take alendronate. Although this type of pain may begin after you have taken alendronate for some time, it is important for you and your doctor to realize that it may be caused by alendronate. Call your doctor right away if you experience severe pain at any time during your treatment with alendronate. Your doctor may tell you to stop taking alendronate and your pain may go away after you stop taking the medication. talk to your doctor about other things you can do to prevent osteoporosis from developing or worsening. Your doctor will probably tell you to avoid smoking and drinking large amounts of alcohol and to follow a regular program of weight-bearing exercise. What special dietary instructions should I follow? You should eat and drink plenty of foods and drinks that are rich in calcium and vitamin D while you are taking alendronate. Your doctor will tell you which foods and drinks are good sources of these nutrients and how many servings you need each day. If you find it difficult to eat enough of these foods, tell your doctor. In that case, your doctor can prescribe or recommend a supplement. What should I do if I forget a dose? If you miss a dose of once-daily alendronate, do not take it later in the day. Skip the missed dose and take one dose the next morning as usual. Do not take a double dose to make up for a missed one. If you miss a dose of once-weekly alendronate, take the dose the morning after you remember. Then return to taking one dose once each week on your regularly scheduled day. Never take a double dose to make up for a missed one, and never take more than one dose in one day. What side effects can this medication cause? Alendronate may cause side effects. Tell your doctor if any of these symptoms are severe or do not go away: nausea stomach pain constipation diarrhea gas bloating or fullness in the stomach change in ability to taste food headache dizziness swelling of the joints, hands, or legs muscle spasms, twitches, or cramps Some side effects can be serious. If you experience any of the following symptoms or those listed in the SPECIAL PRECAUTIONS section, call your doctor immediately before you take any more alendronate: new or worsening heartburn difficulty swallowing pain on swallowing chest pain bloody vomit or vomit that looks like coffee grounds black, tarry, or bloody stools fever blisters or peeling skin rash (may be made worse by sunlight) itching hives swelling of eyes, face, lips, tongue, or throat difficulty breathing hoarseness painful or swollen gums loosening of the teeth numbness or heavy feeling in the jaw poor healing of the jaw eye pain dull, aching pain in the hips, groin, or thighs Taking a bisphosphonate medication such as alendronate for osteoporosis may increase the risk that you will break your thigh bone(s). You may feel pain in your hips, groin, or thighs for several weeks or months before the bone(s) break, and you may find that one or both of your thigh bones have broken even though you have not fallen or experienced other trauma. It is unusual for the thigh bone to break in healthy people, but people who have osteoporosis may break this bone even if they do not take alendronate. Talk to your doctor about the risks of taking alendronate. Alendronate may cause other side effects. Call your doctor if you have any unusual problems while taking this medication. If you experience a serious side effect, you or your doctor may send a report to the Food and Drug Administration's (FDA) MedWatch Adverse Event Reporting program online ( http://www.fda.gov/Safety/MedWatch ) or by phone (1-800-332-1088). What should I know about storage and disposal of this medication? Keep this medication in the container it came in, tightly closed, and out of reach of children. Store it at room temperature and away from excess heat and moisture (not in the bathroom). Do not freeze alendronate solution. It is important to keep all medication out of sight and reach of children as many containers (such as weekly pill minders and those for eye drops, creams, patches, and inhalers) are not child-resistant and young children can open them easily. To protect young children from poisoning, always lock safety caps and immediately place the medication in a safe location – one that is up and away and out of their sight and reach. http://www.upandaway.org Unneeded medications should be disposed of in special ways to ensure that pets, children, and other people cannot consume them. However, you should not flush this medication down the toilet. Instead, the best way to dispose of your medication is through a medicine take-back program. Talk to your pharmacist or contact your local garbage/recycling department to learn about take-back programs in your community. See the FDA's Safe Disposal of Medicines website ( http://goo.gl/c4Rm4p ) for more information if you do not have access to a take-back program. In case of emergency/overdose In case of overdose, give the victim a full glass of milk and call your local poison control center at 1-800-222-1222. If the victim has collapsed or is not breathing, call local emergency services at 911. Do not allow the victim to lie down and do not try to make the victim vomit. Symptoms of overdose may include the following: heartburn nausea stomach pain bloody vomit or vomit that looks like coffee grounds difficulty swallowing or pain when swallowing bloody or black and tarry stools What other information should I know? Keep all appointments with your doctor and the laboratory. Your doctor may order certain lab tests to check your body's response to alendronate. Do not let anyone else take your medication. Ask your pharmacist any questions you have about refilling your prescription. It is important for you to keep a written list of all of the prescription and nonprescription (over-the-counter) medicines you are taking, as well as any products such as vitamins, minerals, or other dietary supplements. You should bring this list with you each time you visit a doctor or if you are admitted to a hospital. It is also important information to carry with you in case of emergencies. Brand names Binosto ® Fosamax ®

[ Diphenhydramine pronounced as (dye fen hye' dra meen)  Diphenhydramine is used to relieve red, irritated, itchy, watery eyes; sneezing; and runny nose caused by hay fever, allergies, or the common cold. Diphenhydramine is also used to relieve cough caused by minor throat or airway irritation. Diphenhydramine is also used to prevent and treat motion sickness, and to treat insomnia (difficulty falling asleep or staying asleep). Diphenhydramine is also used to control abnormal movements in people who have early stage parkinsonian syndrome (a disorder of the nervous system that causes difficulties with movement, muscle control, and balance) or who are experiencing movement problems as a side effect of a medication. Diphenhydramine will relieve the symptoms of these conditions but will not treat the cause of the symptoms or speed recovery. Diphenhydramine should not be used to cause sleepiness in children. Diphenhydramine is in a class of medications called antihistamines. It works by blocking the action of histamine, a substance in the body that causes allergic symptoms. How should this medicine be used? Diphenhydramine comes as a tablet, a rapidly disintegrating (dissolving) tablet, a capsule, a liquid-filled capsule, a dissolving strip, powder, and a liquid to take by mouth. When diphenhydramine is used for the relief of allergies, cold, and cough symptoms, it is usually taken every 4 to 6 hours. When diphenhydramine is used to treat motion sickness, it is usually taken 30 minutes before departure and, if needed, before meals and at bedtime. When diphenhydramine is used to treat insomnia it is taken at bedtime (30 minutes before planned sleep). When diphenhydramine is used to treat abnormal movements, it is usually taken three times a day at first and then taken 4 times a day. Follow the directions on the package or on your prescription label carefully, and ask your doctor or pharmacist to explain any part you do not understand. Take diphenhydramine exactly as directed. Do not take more or less of it or take it more often than prescribed by your doctor or directed on the label. Diphenhydramine comes alone and in combination with pain relievers, fever reducers, and decongestants. Ask your doctor or pharmacist for advice on which product is best for your symptoms. Check nonprescription cough and cold product labels carefully before using two or more products at the same time. These products may contain the same active ingredient(s) and taking them together could cause you to receive an overdose. This is especially important if you will be giving cough and cold medications to a child. Nonprescription cough and cold combination products, including products that contain diphenhydramine, can cause serious side effects or death in young children. Do not give these products to children younger than 4 years of age. If you give these products to children 4 to 11 years of age, use caution and follow the package directions carefully. If you are giving diphenhydramine or a combination product that contains diphenhydramine to a child, read the package label carefully to be sure that it is the right product for a child of that age. Do not give diphenhydramine products that are made for adults to children. Before you give a diphenhydramine product to a child, check the package label to find out how much medication the child should receive. Give the dose that matches the child's age on the chart. Ask the child's doctor if you don't know how much medication to give the child. If you are taking the liquid, do not use a household spoon to measure your dose. Use the measuring spoon or cup that came with the medication or use a spoon made especially for measuring medication. If you are taking the dissolving strips, place the strips on your tongue one at a time and swallow after they melt. If you are taking the rapidly dissolving tablets, place a tablet on your tongue and close your mouth. The tablet will quickly dissolve and can be swallowed with or without water. If you are taking the capsules, swallow them whole. Do not try to break the capsules. Other uses for this medicine This medication is sometimes prescribed for other uses; ask your doctor or pharmacist for more information. What special precautions should I follow? Before taking diphenhydramine, tell your doctor and pharmacist if you are allergic to diphenhydramine, any other medications, or any of the ingredients in diphenhydramine preparations. Ask your doctor or pharmacist or check the package label for a list of the ingredients. tell your doctor and pharmacist what prescription and nonprescription medications, vitamins, nutritional supplements, and herbal products you are taking or plan to take. Be sure to mention any of the following: other diphenhydramine products (even those that are used on the skin); other medications for colds, hay fever, or allergies; medications for anxiety, depression, or seizures; muscle relaxants; narcotic medications for pain; sedatives; sleeping pills; and tranquilizers. tell your doctor if you have or have ever had asthma, emphysema, chronic bronchitis, or other types of lung disease; glaucoma (a condition in which increased pressure in the eye can lead to gradual loss of vision); ulcers; difficulty urinating (due to an enlarged prostate gland); heart disease; high blood pressure; seizures; or an overactive thyroid gland.If you will be using the liquid, tell your doctor if you have been told to follow a low-sodium diet. tell your doctor if you are pregnant, plan to become pregnant, or are breast-feeding. If you become pregnant while taking diphenhydramine, call your doctor. you should know that generally diphenhydramine should not be used in older adults, except to manage serious allergic reactions, because it is not as safe or effective as other medication(s) to treat your condition. If you are 65 years of age or older, talk to your doctor about the risks and benefits of taking this medication. if you are having surgery, including dental surgery, tell the doctor or dentist that you are taking diphenhydramine. you should know that this medication may make you drowsy. Do not drive a car or operate machinery until you know how this medication affects you. remember that alcohol can add to the drowsiness caused by this medication. Avoid alcoholic beverages while you are taking this medication. if you have phenylketonuria (PKU, an inherited condition in which a special diet must be followed to prevent damage to your brain that can cause severe intellectual disability), you should know that some brands of chewable tablets and rapidly disintegrating tablets that contain diphenhydramine may be sweetened with aspartame, a source of phenylalanine. What special dietary instructions should I follow? Unless your doctor tells you otherwise, continue your normal diet. What should I do if I forget a dose? Diphenhydramine is usually taken as needed. If your doctor has told you to take diphenhydramine regularly, take the missed dose as soon as you remember it. However, if it is almost time for the next dose, skip the missed dose and continue your regular dosing schedule. Do not take a double dose to make up for a missed one. What side effects can this medication cause? Diphenhydramine may cause side effects. Tell your doctor if any of these symptoms are severe or do not go away: dry mouth, nose, and throat drowsiness dizziness nausea vomiting loss of appetite constipation increased chest congestion headache muscle weakness excitement (especially in children) nervousness Some side effects may be serious. If you experience any of the following symptoms, call your doctor immediately: vision problems difficulty urinating or painful urination Diphenhydramine may cause other side effects. Call your doctor if you experience any unusual problems while you are taking this medication. If you experience a serious side effect, you or your doctor may send a report to the Food and Drug Administration's (FDA) MedWatch Adverse Event Reporting program online ( http://www.fda.gov/Safety/MedWatch ) or by phone (1-800-332-1088). What should I know about storage and disposal of this medication? Keep this medication in the container it came in, tightly closed, and out of reach of children. Store it at room temperature and away from excess heat and moisture (not in the bathroom). It is important to keep all medication out of sight and reach of children as many containers (such as weekly pill minders and those for eye drops, creams, patches, and inhalers) are not child-resistant and young children can open them easily. To protect young children from poisoning, always lock safety caps and immediately place the medication in a safe location – one that is up and away and out of their sight and reach. http://www.upandaway.org Unneeded medications should be disposed of in special ways to ensure that pets, children, and other people cannot consume them. However, you should not flush this medication down the toilet. Instead, the best way to dispose of your medication is through a medicine take-back program. Talk to your pharmacist or contact your local garbage/recycling department to learn about take-back programs in your community. See the FDA's Safe Disposal of Medicines website ( http://goo.gl/c4Rm4p ) for more information if you do not have access to a take-back program. In case of emergency/overdose In case of overdose, call the poison control helpline at 1-800-222-1222. Information is also available online at https://www.poisonhelp.org/help . If the victim has collapsed, had a seizure, has trouble breathing, or can't be awakened, immediately call emergency services at 911. What other information should I know? Ask your pharmacist any questions you have about diphenhydramine. It is important for you to keep a written list of all of the prescription and nonprescription (over-the-counter) medicines you are taking, as well as any products such as vitamins, minerals, or other dietary supplements. You should bring this list with you each time you visit a doctor or if you are admitted to a hospital. It is also important information to carry with you in case of emergencies. Brand names Aler-Dryl ® Allergia-C ® ¶ Allermax ® ¶ Altaryl ® ¶ Banophen ® ¶ Ben Tann ® § Benadryl ® Bromanate AF ® ¶ Compoz Nighttime Sleep Aid ® ¶ Dicopanol ® § Diphedryl ® ¶ Diphen ® ¶ Diphenadryl ® ¶ Diphenhist ® Diphenylin ® ¶ Dytan ® ¶ Hydramine ® ¶ Nytol ® Pardryl ® ¶ PediaCare Children's Allergy ® Siladryl ® Silphen ® Sominex ® Unisom ®

[ Naproxen pronounced as (na prox' en) To use the sharing features on this page, please enable JavaScript. Why is this medication prescribed? How should this medicine be used? Other uses for this medicine What special precautions should I follow? What special dietary instructions should I follow? What should I do if I forget a dose? What side effects can this medication cause? What should I know about storage and disposal of this medication? In case of emergency/overdose What other information should I know? Brand names IMPORTANT WARNING: People who take nonsteroidal anti-inflammatory drugs (NSAIDs) (other than aspirin) such as naproxen may have a higher risk of having a heart attack or a stroke than people who do not take these medications. These events may happen without warning and may cause death. These problems may develop at any time during treatment, but the risk may be higher for people who take NSAIDs for a long time or at higher doses. Do not take an NSAID such as naproxen if you have recently had a heart attack, unless directed to do so by your doctor. Tell your doctor if you or anyone in your family has or has ever had heart disease, a heart attack, or a stroke, if you smoke, and if you have or have ever had high cholesterol, high blood pressure, or diabetes. Get emergency medical help right away if you experience any of the following symptoms: chest pain, shortness of breath, weakness in one part or side of the body, or slurred speech. If you will be undergoing a coronary artery bypass graft (CABG; a type of heart surgery), you should not take naproxen right before or right after the surgery. NSAIDs such as naproxen may cause ulcers, bleeding, or holes in the esophagus (tube between the mouth and stomach), stomach, or intestine. These problems may develop at any time during treatment, may happen without warning symptoms, and may cause death. The risk may be higher for people who take NSAIDs for a long time or at higher doses, are older in age, have poor health, who smoke, or who drink large amounts of alcohol while taking naproxen. Tell your doctor if you take any of the following medications: anticoagulants (''blood thinners'') such as warfarin (Coumadin, Jantoven); aspirin; other NSAIDs such as ibuprofen (Advil, Motrin) and ketoprofen; oral steroids such as dexamethasone, methylprednisolone (Medrol), and prednisone (Rayos); salicylate pain relievers such as diflunisal, magnesium salicylate (Doan's, others), and salsalate; selective serotonin reuptake inhibitors (SSRIs) such as citalopram (Celexa), fluoxetine (Prozac, in Symbyax), fluvoxamine (Luvox), paroxetine (Brisdelle, Paxil, Pexeva), and sertraline (Zoloft); or serotonin norepinephrine reuptake inhibitors (SNRIs) such as desvenlafaxine (Pristiq), duloxetine (Cymbalta), and venlafaxine (Effexor XR). Also tell your doctor if you have or have ever had ulcers, bleeding in your stomach or intestines, other bleeding disorders, or liver disease. If you experience any of the following symptoms, stop taking naproxen and call your doctor: stomach pain, heartburn, vomit that is bloody or looks like coffee grounds, blood in the stool, or black and tarry stools. Keep all appointments with your doctor and the laboratory. Your doctor will monitor your symptoms carefully and will probably order certain tests to check your body's response to naproxen. Be sure to tell your doctor how you are feeling so that your doctor can prescribe the right amount of medication to treat your condition with the lowest risk of serious side effects. Your doctor or pharmacist will give you the manufacturer's patient information sheet (Medication Guide) when you begin treatment with prescription naproxen and each time you refill your prescription. Read the information carefully and ask your doctor or pharmacist if you have any questions. You can also visit the Food and Drug Administration (FDA) website ( http://www.fda.gov/Drugs/DrugSafety/ucm085729.htm ) or the manufacturer's website to obtain the Medication Guide. Why is this medication prescribed? Prescription naproxen is used to relieve pain, tenderness, swelling, and stiffness caused by osteoarthritis (arthritis caused by a breakdown of the lining of the joints), rheumatoid arthritis (arthritis caused by swelling of the lining of the joints), juvenile arthritis (a form of joint disease in children), and ankylosing spondylitis (arthritis that mainly affects the spine). Prescription naproxen tablets, extended-release tablets, and suspension are also used to relieve shoulder pain caused by bursitis (inflammation of a fluid-filled sac in the shoulder joint), tendinitis (inflammation of the tissue that connects muscle to bone), gouty arthritis (attacks of joint pain caused by a build-up of certain substances in the joints), and pain from other causes, including menstrual pain (pain that happens before or during a menstrual period). Nonprescription naproxen is used to reduce fever and to relieve mild pain from headaches, muscle aches, arthritis, menstrual periods, the common cold, toothaches, and backaches. Naproxen is in a class of medications called NSAIDs. It works by stopping the body's production of a substance that causes pain, fever, and inflammation. How should this medicine be used? Prescription naproxen comes as a regular tablet, a delayed-release (a tablet that releases the medication in the intestine to prevent damage to the stomach) tablet, an extended-release (long-acting) tablet, and a suspension (liquid) to take by mouth. The extended-release tablets are usually taken once a day. The tablets, delayed-release tablets, and suspension are usually taken twice a day for arthritis. The tablets and suspension are usually taken every 8 hours for gout, and every 6 to 8 hours as needed for pain. If you are taking naproxen on a regular basis, you should take it at the same time(s) every day. Nonprescription naproxen comes as tablet, a capsule, and a gel capsule to take by mouth. It is usually taken with a full glass of water every 8 to 12 hours as needed. Nonprescription naproxen may be taken with food or milk to prevent nausea. Follow the directions on the package or prescription label carefully, and ask your doctor or pharmacist to explain any part you do not understand. Take naproxen exactly as directed. Do not take more or less of it or take it more often than prescribed by your doctor or written on the package. If you are taking the suspension, gently shake the suspension well before each use to mix the medication evenly. Use an oral syringe or measuring cup provided by your pharmacist to measure the correct amount of liquid needed for your dose. Swallow the delayed-release tablets and extended release tablets whole; do not split, chew, or crush them. If you are taking naproxen to relieve the symptoms of arthritis, your symptoms may begin to improve within 1 week. It may take 2 weeks or longer for you to feel the full benefit of the medication. Stop taking nonprescription naproxen and call your doctor if your symptoms get worse, you develop new or unexpected symptoms, the part of your body that was painful becomes red or swollen, your pain lasts for more than 10 days, or your fever lasts for more than 3 days. Other uses for this medicine Naproxen is also sometimes used to treat Paget's disease of bone (a condition in which the bones become abnormally thick, fragile, and misshapen) and Bartter syndrome (a condition in which the body does not absorb enough potassium, causing muscle cramping and weakness and other symptoms). Talk to your doctor about the risks of using this medication for your condition. This medication is sometimes prescribed for other uses; ask your doctor or pharmacist for more information. What special precautions should I follow? Before taking naproxen, tell your doctor and pharmacist if you are allergic to naproxen, aspirin or other NSAIDs such as ibuprofen (Advil, Motrin) and ketoprofen, any medications for pain or fever, other medications, or any of the ingredients in naproxen products. Ask your doctor or pharmacist for a list of the ingredients. tell your doctor and pharmacist what prescription and nonprescription medications, vitamins, nutritional supplements, and herbal products you are taking or plan to take. Be sure to mention the medications listed in the IMPORTANT WARNING section and any of the following: angiotensin-converting enzyme (ACE) inhibitors such as benazepril (Lotensin, in Lotrel), captopril, enalapril (Vasotec, in Vaseretic), fosinopril, lisinopril (Zestril, in Zestoretic), moexipril (Univasc), perindopril (Aceon, in Prestalia), quinapril (Accupril, in Accuretic, in Quinaretic), ramipril (Altace), and trandolapril (Mavik, in Tarka); angiotensin receptor blockers (ARBs) such as azilsartan (Edarbi, in Edarbyclor), candesartan (Atacand, in Atacand HCT), eprosartan (Teveten), irbesartan (Avapro, in Avalide), losartan (Cozaar, in Hyzaar), olmesartan (Benicar, in Azor, in Benicar HCT, in Tribenzor), telmisartan (Micardis, in Micardis HCT, in Twynsta), and valsartan (in Exforge HCT); beta blockers such as atenolol (Tenormin, in Tenoretic), labetalol (Trandate), metoprolol (Lopressor, Toprol XL, in Dutoprol), nadolol (Corgard, in Corzide), and propranolol (Hemangeol, Inderal, InnoPran); cholestyramine (Prevalite); cyclosporine (Gengraf, Neoral, Sandimimune); digoxin (Lanoxin); diuretics ('water pills'); lithium (Lithobid), medications for diabetes; methotrexate (Otrexup, Rasuvo, Trexall); pemetrexed (Alimta, Pemfexy); phenytoin (Dilantin, Phenytek); probenecid (Probalan; in Col-Probenecid); and sulfa medications such as sulfamethoxazole (in Bactrim, in Septra). Also tell your doctor if you are taking antacids or sucralfate (Carafate). Your doctor may need to change the doses of your medication or monitor you more carefully for side effects. do not take nonprescription naproxen with any other medication for pain unless your doctor tells you that you should. tell your doctor if you have been told to follow a low sodium diet and if you have or have ever had any of the conditions mentioned in the IMPORTANT WARNING section or asthma, especially if you also have frequent stuffed or runny nose or nasal polyps (swelling of the inside of the nose); heart failure; swelling of the hands, arms, feet, ankles, or lower legs; anemia (red blood cells do not bring enough oxygen to all parts of the body); or kidney disease. tell your doctor if you are pregnant, plan to become pregnant; or are breast-feeding. Naproxen may harm the fetus and cause problems with delivery if it is taken around 20 weeks or later during pregnancy. Do not take naproxen around or after 20 weeks of pregnancy, unless you are told to do so by your doctor. If you become pregnant while taking naproxen, call your doctor. you should know that this medication may temporarily decrease fertility in women. Talk to your doctor about the risks of taking naproxen if you have concerns about fertility. talk to your doctor about the risks and benefits of taking naproxen if you are 65 years of age or older. Older adults should usually take lower doses of naproxen for short periods of time because higher doses used regularly may not be more effective and are more likely to cause serious side effects. if you are having surgery, including dental surgery, tell the doctor or dentist that you are taking naproxen. What special dietary instructions should I follow? Unless your doctor tells you otherwise, continue your normal diet. What should I do if I forget a dose? Take the missed dose as soon as you remember it. However, if it is almost time for the next dose, skip the missed dose and continue your regular dosing schedule. Do not take a double dose to make up for a missed one. What side effects can this medication cause? Naproxen may cause side effects. Tell your doctor if any of these symptoms are severe or do not go away: constipation gas excessive thirst headache dizziness lightheadedness drowsiness difficulty falling asleep or staying asleep burning or tingling in the arms or legs cold symptoms ringing in the ears hearing problems Some side effects can be serious. If you experience any of the following symptoms, or those mentioned in the IMPORTANT WARNING section, call your doctor immediately. Do not take any more naproxen until you speak to your doctor: changes in vision feeling that the tablet is stuck in your throat unexplained weight gain shortness of breath or difficulty breathing swelling in the abdomen, ankles, feet, or legs sore throat, fever, chills, and other signs of infection blisters rash skin reddening itching hives swelling of the eyes, face, lips, tongue, throat, arms, or hands difficulty breathing or swallowing hoarseness excessive tiredness pain in the upper right part of the stomach nausea diarrhea yellowing of the skin or eyes flu-like symptoms bruises or purple blotches under the skin fast heartbeat cloudy, discolored, or bloody urine back pain difficult or painful urination decreased urination loss of appetite confusion Naproxen may cause other side effects. Call your doctor if you have any unusual problems while taking this medication. If you experience a serious side effect, you or your doctor may send a report to the Food and Drug Administration's (FDA) MedWatch Adverse Event Reporting program online ( http://www.fda.gov/Safety/MedWatch ) or by phone (1-800-332-1088). What should I know about storage and disposal of this medication? Keep this medication in the container it came in, tightly closed, and out of reach of children. Store it at room temperature and away from excess heat and moisture (not in the bathroom). It is important to keep all medication out of sight and reach of children as many containers (such as weekly pill minders and those for eye drops, creams, patches, and inhalers) are not child-resistant and young children can open them easily. To protect young children from poisoning, always lock safety caps and immediately place the medication in a safe location – one that is up and away and out of their sight and reach. http://www.upandaway.org Unneeded medications should be disposed of in special ways to ensure that pets, children, and other people cannot consume them. However, you should not flush this medication down the toilet. Instead, the best way to dispose of your medication is through a medicine take-back program. Talk to your pharmacist or contact your local garbage/recycling department to learn about take-back programs in your community. See the FDA's Safe Disposal of Medicines website ( http://goo.gl/c4Rm4p ) for more information if you do not have access to a take-back program. In case of emergency/overdose In case of overdose, call the poison control helpline at 1-800-222-1222. Information is also available online at https://www.poisonhelp.org/help . If the victim has collapsed, had a seizure, has trouble breathing, or can't be awakened, immediately call emergency services at 911. Symptoms of overdose may include the following: extreme tiredness drowsiness stomach pain heartburn nausea vomiting slow or difficult breathing What other information should I know? Before having any laboratory test, tell your doctor and the laboratory personnel that you are taking naproxen. If you are taking prescription naproxen, do not let anyone else take your medication. Ask your pharmacist any questions you have about refilling your prescription. It is important for you to keep a written list of all of the prescription and nonprescription (over-the-counter) medicines you are taking, as well as any products such as vitamins, minerals, or other dietary supplements. You should bring this list with you each time you visit a doctor or if you are admitted to a hospital. It is also important information to carry with you in case of emergencies. Brand names Aleve ® Anaprox ® Anaprox ® DS EC-Naprosyn ® Flanax ® Naprelan ® Naprosyn ®

[ Naproxen pronounced as (na prox' en) To use the sharing features on this page, please enable JavaScript. Why is this medication prescribed? How should this medicine be used? Other uses for this medicine What special precautions should I follow? What special dietary instructions should I follow? What should I do if I forget a dose? What side effects can this medication cause? What should I know about storage and disposal of this medication? In case of emergency/overdose What other information should I know? Brand names IMPORTANT WARNING: People who take nonsteroidal anti-inflammatory drugs (NSAIDs) (other than aspirin) such as naproxen may have a higher risk of having a heart attack or a stroke than people who do not take these medications. These events may happen without warning and may cause death. These problems may develop at any time during treatment, but the risk may be higher for people who take NSAIDs for a long time or at higher doses. Do not take an NSAID such as naproxen if you have recently had a heart attack, unless directed to do so by your doctor. Tell your doctor if you or anyone in your family has or has ever had heart disease, a heart attack, or a stroke, if you smoke, and if you have or have ever had high cholesterol, high blood pressure, or diabetes. Get emergency medical help right away if you experience any of the following symptoms: chest pain, shortness of breath, weakness in one part or side of the body, or slurred speech. If you will be undergoing a coronary artery bypass graft (CABG; a type of heart surgery), you should not take naproxen right before or right after the surgery. NSAIDs such as naproxen may cause ulcers, bleeding, or holes in the esophagus (tube between the mouth and stomach), stomach, or intestine. These problems may develop at any time during treatment, may happen without warning symptoms, and may cause death. The risk may be higher for people who take NSAIDs for a long time or at higher doses, are older in age, have poor health, who smoke, or who drink large amounts of alcohol while taking naproxen. Tell your doctor if you take any of the following medications: anticoagulants (''blood thinners'') such as warfarin (Coumadin, Jantoven); aspirin; other NSAIDs such as ibuprofen (Advil, Motrin) and ketoprofen; oral steroids such as dexamethasone, methylprednisolone (Medrol), and prednisone (Rayos); salicylate pain relievers such as diflunisal, magnesium salicylate (Doan's, others), and salsalate; selective serotonin reuptake inhibitors (SSRIs) such as citalopram (Celexa), fluoxetine (Prozac, in Symbyax), fluvoxamine (Luvox), paroxetine (Brisdelle, Paxil, Pexeva), and sertraline (Zoloft); or serotonin norepinephrine reuptake inhibitors (SNRIs) such as desvenlafaxine (Pristiq), duloxetine (Cymbalta), and venlafaxine (Effexor XR). Also tell your doctor if you have or have ever had ulcers, bleeding in your stomach or intestines, other bleeding disorders, or liver disease. If you experience any of the following symptoms, stop taking naproxen and call your doctor: stomach pain, heartburn, vomit that is bloody or looks like coffee grounds, blood in the stool, or black and tarry stools. Keep all appointments with your doctor and the laboratory. Your doctor will monitor your symptoms carefully and will probably order certain tests to check your body's response to naproxen. Be sure to tell your doctor how you are feeling so that your doctor can prescribe the right amount of medication to treat your condition with the lowest risk of serious side effects. Your doctor or pharmacist will give you the manufacturer's patient information sheet (Medication Guide) when you begin treatment with prescription naproxen and each time you refill your prescription. Read the information carefully and ask your doctor or pharmacist if you have any questions. You can also visit the Food and Drug Administration (FDA) website ( http://www.fda.gov/Drugs/DrugSafety/ucm085729.htm ) or the manufacturer's website to obtain the Medication Guide. Why is this medication prescribed? Prescription naproxen is used to relieve pain, tenderness, swelling, and stiffness caused by osteoarthritis (arthritis caused by a breakdown of the lining of the joints), rheumatoid arthritis (arthritis caused by swelling of the lining of the joints), juvenile arthritis (a form of joint disease in children), and ankylosing spondylitis (arthritis that mainly affects the spine). Prescription naproxen tablets, extended-release tablets, and suspension are also used to relieve shoulder pain caused by bursitis (inflammation of a fluid-filled sac in the shoulder joint), tendinitis (inflammation of the tissue that connects muscle to bone), gouty arthritis (attacks of joint pain caused by a build-up of certain substances in the joints), and pain from other causes, including menstrual pain (pain that happens before or during a menstrual period). Nonprescription naproxen is used to reduce fever and to relieve mild pain from headaches, muscle aches, arthritis, menstrual periods, the common cold, toothaches, and backaches. Naproxen is in a class of medications called NSAIDs. It works by stopping the body's production of a substance that causes pain, fever, and inflammation. How should this medicine be used? Prescription naproxen comes as a regular tablet, a delayed-release (a tablet that releases the medication in the intestine to prevent damage to the stomach) tablet, an extended-release (long-acting) tablet, and a suspension (liquid) to take by mouth. The extended-release tablets are usually taken once a day. The tablets, delayed-release tablets, and suspension are usually taken twice a day for arthritis. The tablets and suspension are usually taken every 8 hours for gout, and every 6 to 8 hours as needed for pain. If you are taking naproxen on a regular basis, you should take it at the same time(s) every day. Nonprescription naproxen comes as tablet, a capsule, and a gel capsule to take by mouth. It is usually taken with a full glass of water every 8 to 12 hours as needed. Nonprescription naproxen may be taken with food or milk to prevent nausea. Follow the directions on the package or prescription label carefully, and ask your doctor or pharmacist to explain any part you do not understand. Take naproxen exactly as directed. Do not take more or less of it or take it more often than prescribed by your doctor or written on the package. If you are taking the suspension, gently shake the suspension well before each use to mix the medication evenly. Use an oral syringe or measuring cup provided by your pharmacist to measure the correct amount of liquid needed for your dose. Swallow the delayed-release tablets and extended release tablets whole; do not split, chew, or crush them. If you are taking naproxen to relieve the symptoms of arthritis, your symptoms may begin to improve within 1 week. It may take 2 weeks or longer for you to feel the full benefit of the medication. Stop taking nonprescription naproxen and call your doctor if your symptoms get worse, you develop new or unexpected symptoms, the part of your body that was painful becomes red or swollen, your pain lasts for more than 10 days, or your fever lasts for more than 3 days. Other uses for this medicine Naproxen is also sometimes used to treat Paget's disease of bone (a condition in which the bones become abnormally thick, fragile, and misshapen) and Bartter syndrome (a condition in which the body does not absorb enough potassium, causing muscle cramping and weakness and other symptoms). Talk to your doctor about the risks of using this medication for your condition. This medication is sometimes prescribed for other uses; ask your doctor or pharmacist for more information. What special precautions should I follow? Before taking naproxen, tell your doctor and pharmacist if you are allergic to naproxen, aspirin or other NSAIDs such as ibuprofen (Advil, Motrin) and ketoprofen, any medications for pain or fever, other medications, or any of the ingredients in naproxen products. Ask your doctor or pharmacist for a list of the ingredients. tell your doctor and pharmacist what prescription and nonprescription medications, vitamins, nutritional supplements, and herbal products you are taking or plan to take. Be sure to mention the medications listed in the IMPORTANT WARNING section and any of the following: angiotensin-converting enzyme (ACE) inhibitors such as benazepril (Lotensin, in Lotrel), captopril, enalapril (Vasotec, in Vaseretic), fosinopril, lisinopril (Zestril, in Zestoretic), moexipril (Univasc), perindopril (Aceon, in Prestalia), quinapril (Accupril, in Accuretic, in Quinaretic), ramipril (Altace), and trandolapril (Mavik, in Tarka); angiotensin receptor blockers (ARBs) such as azilsartan (Edarbi, in Edarbyclor), candesartan (Atacand, in Atacand HCT), eprosartan (Teveten), irbesartan (Avapro, in Avalide), losartan (Cozaar, in Hyzaar), olmesartan (Benicar, in Azor, in Benicar HCT, in Tribenzor), telmisartan (Micardis, in Micardis HCT, in Twynsta), and valsartan (in Exforge HCT); beta blockers such as atenolol (Tenormin, in Tenoretic), labetalol (Trandate), metoprolol (Lopressor, Toprol XL, in Dutoprol), nadolol (Corgard, in Corzide), and propranolol (Hemangeol, Inderal, InnoPran); cholestyramine (Prevalite); cyclosporine (Gengraf, Neoral, Sandimimune); digoxin (Lanoxin); diuretics ('water pills'); lithium (Lithobid), medications for diabetes; methotrexate (Otrexup, Rasuvo, Trexall); pemetrexed (Alimta, Pemfexy); phenytoin (Dilantin, Phenytek); probenecid (Probalan; in Col-Probenecid); and sulfa medications such as sulfamethoxazole (in Bactrim, in Septra). Also tell your doctor if you are taking antacids or sucralfate (Carafate). Your doctor may need to change the doses of your medication or monitor you more carefully for side effects. do not take nonprescription naproxen with any other medication for pain unless your doctor tells you that you should. tell your doctor if you have been told to follow a low sodium diet and if you have or have ever had any of the conditions mentioned in the IMPORTANT WARNING section or asthma, especially if you also have frequent stuffed or runny nose or nasal polyps (swelling of the inside of the nose); heart failure; swelling of the hands, arms, feet, ankles, or lower legs; anemia (red blood cells do not bring enough oxygen to all parts of the body); or kidney disease. tell your doctor if you are pregnant, plan to become pregnant; or are breast-feeding. Naproxen may harm the fetus and cause problems with delivery if it is taken around 20 weeks or later during pregnancy. Do not take naproxen around or after 20 weeks of pregnancy, unless you are told to do so by your doctor. If you become pregnant while taking naproxen, call your doctor. you should know that this medication may temporarily decrease fertility in women. Talk to your doctor about the risks of taking naproxen if you have concerns about fertility. talk to your doctor about the risks and benefits of taking naproxen if you are 65 years of age or older. Older adults should usually take lower doses of naproxen for short periods of time because higher doses used regularly may not be more effective and are more likely to cause serious side effects. if you are having surgery, including dental surgery, tell the doctor or dentist that you are taking naproxen. What special dietary instructions should I follow? Unless your doctor tells you otherwise, continue your normal diet. What should I do if I forget a dose? Take the missed dose as soon as you remember it. However, if it is almost time for the next dose, skip the missed dose and continue your regular dosing schedule. Do not take a double dose to make up for a missed one. What side effects can this medication cause? Naproxen may cause side effects. Tell your doctor if any of these symptoms are severe or do not go away: constipation gas excessive thirst headache dizziness lightheadedness drowsiness difficulty falling asleep or staying asleep burning or tingling in the arms or legs cold symptoms ringing in the ears hearing problems Some side effects can be serious. If you experience any of the following symptoms, or those mentioned in the IMPORTANT WARNING section, call your doctor immediately. Do not take any more naproxen until you speak to your doctor: changes in vision feeling that the tablet is stuck in your throat unexplained weight gain shortness of breath or difficulty breathing swelling in the abdomen, ankles, feet, or legs sore throat, fever, chills, and other signs of infection blisters rash skin reddening itching hives swelling of the eyes, face, lips, tongue, throat, arms, or hands difficulty breathing or swallowing hoarseness excessive tiredness pain in the upper right part of the stomach nausea diarrhea yellowing of the skin or eyes flu-like symptoms bruises or purple blotches under the skin fast heartbeat cloudy, discolored, or bloody urine back pain difficult or painful urination decreased urination loss of appetite confusion Naproxen may cause other side effects. Call your doctor if you have any unusual problems while taking this medication. If you experience a serious side effect, you or your doctor may send a report to the Food and Drug Administration's (FDA) MedWatch Adverse Event Reporting program online ( http://www.fda.gov/Safety/MedWatch ) or by phone (1-800-332-1088). What should I know about storage and disposal of this medication? Keep this medication in the container it came in, tightly closed, and out of reach of children. Store it at room temperature and away from excess heat and moisture (not in the bathroom). It is important to keep all medication out of sight and reach of children as many containers (such as weekly pill minders and those for eye drops, creams, patches, and inhalers) are not child-resistant and young children can open them easily. To protect young children from poisoning, always lock safety caps and immediately place the medication in a safe location – one that is up and away and out of their sight and reach. http://www.upandaway.org Unneeded medications should be disposed of in special ways to ensure that pets, children, and other people cannot consume them. However, you should not flush this medication down the toilet. Instead, the best way to dispose of your medication is through a medicine take-back program. Talk to your pharmacist or contact your local garbage/recycling department to learn about take-back programs in your community. See the FDA's Safe Disposal of Medicines website ( http://goo.gl/c4Rm4p ) for more information if you do not have access to a take-back program. In case of emergency/overdose In case of overdose, call the poison control helpline at 1-800-222-1222. Information is also available online at https://www.poisonhelp.org/help . If the victim has collapsed, had a seizure, has trouble breathing, or can't be awakened, immediately call emergency services at 911. Symptoms of overdose may include the following: extreme tiredness drowsiness stomach pain heartburn nausea vomiting slow or difficult breathing What other information should I know? Before having any laboratory test, tell your doctor and the laboratory personnel that you are taking naproxen. If you are taking prescription naproxen, do not let anyone else take your medication. Ask your pharmacist any questions you have about refilling your prescription. It is important for you to keep a written list of all of the prescription and nonprescription (over-the-counter) medicines you are taking, as well as any products such as vitamins, minerals, or other dietary supplements. You should bring this list with you each time you visit a doctor or if you are admitted to a hospital. It is also important information to carry with you in case of emergencies. Brand names Aleve ® Anaprox ® Anaprox ® DS EC-Naprosyn ® Flanax ® Naprelan ® Naprosyn ®

[ Diphenhydramine pronounced as (dye fen hye' dra meen)  Diphenhydramine is used to relieve red, irritated, itchy, watery eyes; sneezing; and runny nose caused by hay fever, allergies, or the common cold. Diphenhydramine is also used to relieve cough caused by minor throat or airway irritation. Diphenhydramine is also used to prevent and treat motion sickness, and to treat insomnia (difficulty falling asleep or staying asleep). Diphenhydramine is also used to control abnormal movements in people who have early stage parkinsonian syndrome (a disorder of the nervous system that causes difficulties with movement, muscle control, and balance) or who are experiencing movement problems as a side effect of a medication. Diphenhydramine will relieve the symptoms of these conditions but will not treat the cause of the symptoms or speed recovery. Diphenhydramine should not be used to cause sleepiness in children. Diphenhydramine is in a class of medications called antihistamines. It works by blocking the action of histamine, a substance in the body that causes allergic symptoms. How should this medicine be used? Diphenhydramine comes as a tablet, a rapidly disintegrating (dissolving) tablet, a capsule, a liquid-filled capsule, a dissolving strip, powder, and a liquid to take by mouth. When diphenhydramine is used for the relief of allergies, cold, and cough symptoms, it is usually taken every 4 to 6 hours. When diphenhydramine is used to treat motion sickness, it is usually taken 30 minutes before departure and, if needed, before meals and at bedtime. When diphenhydramine is used to treat insomnia it is taken at bedtime (30 minutes before planned sleep). When diphenhydramine is used to treat abnormal movements, it is usually taken three times a day at first and then taken 4 times a day. Follow the directions on the package or on your prescription label carefully, and ask your doctor or pharmacist to explain any part you do not understand. Take diphenhydramine exactly as directed. Do not take more or less of it or take it more often than prescribed by your doctor or directed on the label. Diphenhydramine comes alone and in combination with pain relievers, fever reducers, and decongestants. Ask your doctor or pharmacist for advice on which product is best for your symptoms. Check nonprescription cough and cold product labels carefully before using two or more products at the same time. These products may contain the same active ingredient(s) and taking them together could cause you to receive an overdose. This is especially important if you will be giving cough and cold medications to a child. Nonprescription cough and cold combination products, including products that contain diphenhydramine, can cause serious side effects or death in young children. Do not give these products to children younger than 4 years of age. If you give these products to children 4 to 11 years of age, use caution and follow the package directions carefully. If you are giving diphenhydramine or a combination product that contains diphenhydramine to a child, read the package label carefully to be sure that it is the right product for a child of that age. Do not give diphenhydramine products that are made for adults to children. Before you give a diphenhydramine product to a child, check the package label to find out how much medication the child should receive. Give the dose that matches the child's age on the chart. Ask the child's doctor if you don't know how much medication to give the child. If you are taking the liquid, do not use a household spoon to measure your dose. Use the measuring spoon or cup that came with the medication or use a spoon made especially for measuring medication. If you are taking the dissolving strips, place the strips on your tongue one at a time and swallow after they melt. If you are taking the rapidly dissolving tablets, place a tablet on your tongue and close your mouth. The tablet will quickly dissolve and can be swallowed with or without water. If you are taking the capsules, swallow them whole. Do not try to break the capsules. Other uses for this medicine This medication is sometimes prescribed for other uses; ask your doctor or pharmacist for more information. What special precautions should I follow? Before taking diphenhydramine, tell your doctor and pharmacist if you are allergic to diphenhydramine, any other medications, or any of the ingredients in diphenhydramine preparations. Ask your doctor or pharmacist or check the package label for a list of the ingredients. tell your doctor and pharmacist what prescription and nonprescription medications, vitamins, nutritional supplements, and herbal products you are taking or plan to take. Be sure to mention any of the following: other diphenhydramine products (even those that are used on the skin); other medications for colds, hay fever, or allergies; medications for anxiety, depression, or seizures; muscle relaxants; narcotic medications for pain; sedatives; sleeping pills; and tranquilizers. tell your doctor if you have or have ever had asthma, emphysema, chronic bronchitis, or other types of lung disease; glaucoma (a condition in which increased pressure in the eye can lead to gradual loss of vision); ulcers; difficulty urinating (due to an enlarged prostate gland); heart disease; high blood pressure; seizures; or an overactive thyroid gland.If you will be using the liquid, tell your doctor if you have been told to follow a low-sodium diet. tell your doctor if you are pregnant, plan to become pregnant, or are breast-feeding. If you become pregnant while taking diphenhydramine, call your doctor. you should know that generally diphenhydramine should not be used in older adults, except to manage serious allergic reactions, because it is not as safe or effective as other medication(s) to treat your condition. If you are 65 years of age or older, talk to your doctor about the risks and benefits of taking this medication. if you are having surgery, including dental surgery, tell the doctor or dentist that you are taking diphenhydramine. you should know that this medication may make you drowsy. Do not drive a car or operate machinery until you know how this medication affects you. remember that alcohol can add to the drowsiness caused by this medication. Avoid alcoholic beverages while you are taking this medication. if you have phenylketonuria (PKU, an inherited condition in which a special diet must be followed to prevent damage to your brain that can cause severe intellectual disability), you should know that some brands of chewable tablets and rapidly disintegrating tablets that contain diphenhydramine may be sweetened with aspartame, a source of phenylalanine. What special dietary instructions should I follow? Unless your doctor tells you otherwise, continue your normal diet. What should I do if I forget a dose? Diphenhydramine is usually taken as needed. If your doctor has told you to take diphenhydramine regularly, take the missed dose as soon as you remember it. However, if it is almost time for the next dose, skip the missed dose and continue your regular dosing schedule. Do not take a double dose to make up for a missed one. What side effects can this medication cause? Diphenhydramine may cause side effects. Tell your doctor if any of these symptoms are severe or do not go away: dry mouth, nose, and throat drowsiness dizziness nausea vomiting loss of appetite constipation increased chest congestion headache muscle weakness excitement (especially in children) nervousness Some side effects may be serious. If you experience any of the following symptoms, call your doctor immediately: vision problems difficulty urinating or painful urination Diphenhydramine may cause other side effects. Call your doctor if you experience any unusual problems while you are taking this medication. If you experience a serious side effect, you or your doctor may send a report to the Food and Drug Administration's (FDA) MedWatch Adverse Event Reporting program online ( http://www.fda.gov/Safety/MedWatch ) or by phone (1-800-332-1088). What should I know about storage and disposal of this medication? Keep this medication in the container it came in, tightly closed, and out of reach of children. Store it at room temperature and away from excess heat and moisture (not in the bathroom). It is important to keep all medication out of sight and reach of children as many containers (such as weekly pill minders and those for eye drops, creams, patches, and inhalers) are not child-resistant and young children can open them easily. To protect young children from poisoning, always lock safety caps and immediately place the medication in a safe location – one that is up and away and out of their sight and reach. http://www.upandaway.org Unneeded medications should be disposed of in special ways to ensure that pets, children, and other people cannot consume them. However, you should not flush this medication down the toilet. Instead, the best way to dispose of your medication is through a medicine take-back program. Talk to your pharmacist or contact your local garbage/recycling department to learn about take-back programs in your community. See the FDA's Safe Disposal of Medicines website ( http://goo.gl/c4Rm4p ) for more information if you do not have access to a take-back program. In case of emergency/overdose In case of overdose, call the poison control helpline at 1-800-222-1222. Information is also available online at https://www.poisonhelp.org/help . If the victim has collapsed, had a seizure, has trouble breathing, or can't be awakened, immediately call emergency services at 911. What other information should I know? Ask your pharmacist any questions you have about diphenhydramine. It is important for you to keep a written list of all of the prescription and nonprescription (over-the-counter) medicines you are taking, as well as any products such as vitamins, minerals, or other dietary supplements. You should bring this list with you each time you visit a doctor or if you are admitted to a hospital. It is also important information to carry with you in case of emergencies. Brand names Aler-Dryl ® Allergia-C ® ¶ Allermax ® ¶ Altaryl ® ¶ Banophen ® ¶ Ben Tann ® § Benadryl ® Bromanate AF ® ¶ Compoz Nighttime Sleep Aid ® ¶ Dicopanol ® § Diphedryl ® ¶ Diphen ® ¶ Diphenadryl ® ¶ Diphenhist ® Diphenylin ® ¶ Dytan ® ¶ Hydramine ® ¶ Nytol ® Pardryl ® ¶ PediaCare Children's Allergy ® Siladryl ® Silphen ® Sominex ® Unisom ®

[ Pseudoephedrine pronounced as (soo doe e fed' rin)  Pseudoephedrine is used to relieve nasal congestion caused by colds, allergies, and hay fever. It is also used to temporarily relieve sinus congestion and pressure. Pseudoephedrine will relieve symptoms but will not treat the cause of the symptoms or speed recovery. Pseudoephedrine is in a class of medications called nasal decongestants. It works by causing narrowing of the blood vessels in the nasal passages. How should this medicine be used? Pseudoephedrine comes as a regular tablet, a 12-hour extended-release (long-acting) tablet, a 24-hour extended-release tablet, and a solution (liquid) to be taken by mouth. The regular tablets and liquid are usually taken every 4 to 6 hours. The 12-hour extended-release tablets usually are taken every 12 hours, and you should not take more than two doses in a 24-hour period. The 24-hour extended-release tablets usually are taken once a day, and you should not take more than one dose in a 24-hour period. To help prevent trouble sleeping, take the last dose of the day several hours before bedtime. Follow the directions on the package label or on your prescription label carefully, and ask your doctor or pharmacist to explain any part you do not understand. Take pseudoephedrine exactly as directed. Do not take more or less of it or take it more often than prescribed by your doctor or directed on the label. Pseudoephedrine comes alone and in combination with other medications. Ask your doctor or pharmacist for advice on which product is best for your symptoms. Check nonprescription cough and cold product labels carefully before using 2 or more products at the same time. These products may contain the same active ingredient(s) and taking them together could cause you to receive an overdose. This is especially important if you will be giving cough and cold medications to a child. Nonprescription cough and cold combination products, including products that contain pseudoephedrine, can cause serious side effects or death in young children. Do not give nonprescription pseudoephedrine products to children younger than 4 years of age. If you give these products to children 4-11 years of age, use caution and follow the package directions carefully. Do not give pseudoephedrine extended-release tablets to children younger than 12 years of age. If you are giving pseudoephedrine or a combination product that contains pseudoephedrine to a child, read the package label carefully to be sure that it is the right product for a child of that age. Do not give pseudoephedrine products that are made for adults to children. Before you give a pseudoephedrine product to a child, check the package label to find out how much medication the child should receive. Give the dose that matches the child's age on the chart. Ask the child's doctor if you don't know how much medication to give the child. If you are taking the liquid, do not use a household spoon to measure your dose. Use the measuring spoon or cup that came with the medication or use a spoon made especially for measuring medication. If your symptoms do not get better within 7 days or if you have a fever, stop taking pseudoephedrine and call your doctor. Swallow the extended-release tablets whole; do not break, crush, or chew them. Other uses for this medicine This medication is also sometimes used to prevent ear pain and blockage caused by pressure changes during air travel or underwater diving. Talk to your doctor or pharmacist for more information. This medication is sometimes prescribed for other uses; ask your doctor or pharmacist for more information. What special precautions should I follow? Before taking pseudoephedrine, tell your doctor and pharmacist if you are allergic to pseudoephedrine, any other medications, or any of the inactive ingredients in the pseudoephedrine product you plan to take. Check the package label for a list of the ingredients. do not take pseudoephedrine if you are taking a monoamine oxidase (MAO) inhibitor such as isocarboxazid (Marplan), phenelzine (Nardil), selegiline (Eldepryl, Emsam, Zelapar), and tranylcypromine (Parnate), or if you have stopped taking one of these medications within the past 2 weeks. tell your doctor and pharmacist what prescription and nonprescription medications, vitamins, nutritional supplements, and herbal products you are taking or plan to take. Be sure to mention medications for diet or appetite control, asthma, colds, or high blood pressure. tell your doctor if you have or have ever had high blood pressure, glaucoma (a condition in which increased pressure in the eye can lead to gradual loss of vision), diabetes, difficulty urinating (due to an enlarged prostate gland), or thyroid or heart disease. If you plan to take the 24-hour extended-release tablets, tell your doctor if you have had a narrowing or blockage of your digestive system. tell your doctor if you are pregnant, plan to become pregnant, or are breast-feeding. If you become pregnant while taking pseudoephedrine, call your doctor. if you are having surgery, including dental surgery, tell the doctor or dentist that you are taking pseudoephedrine. What special dietary instructions should I follow? Foods and drinks that contain large amounts of caffeine can make the side effects of pseudoephedrine worse. What should I do if I forget a dose? This medication is usually taken as needed. If your doctor has told you to take pseudoephedrine regularly, take the missed dose as soon as you remember it. However, if it is almost time for the next dose, skip the missed dose and continue your regular dosing schedule. Do not take a double dose to make up for a missed one. What side effects can this medication cause? Pseudoephedrine may cause side effects. Tell your doctor if any of these symptoms are severe or do not go away: restlessness nausea vomiting weakness headache Some side effects can be serious. If you experience any of the following symptoms, call your doctor immediately: nervousness dizziness difficulty sleeping stomach pain difficulty breathing fast, pounding, or irregular heartbeat Pseudoephedrine may cause other side effects. Call your doctor if you have any unusual problems while you are taking this medication. If you experience a serious side effect, you or your doctor may send a report to the Food and Drug Administration's (FDA) MedWatch Adverse Event Reporting program online ( http://www.fda.gov/Safety/MedWatch ) or by phone (1-800-332-1088). What should I know about storage and disposal of this medication? Keep this medication in the container it came in, tightly closed, and out of reach of children. Store it at room temperature and away from excess heat and moisture (not in the bathroom). Unneeded medications should be disposed of in special ways to ensure that pets, children, and other people cannot consume them. However, you should not flush this medication down the toilet. Instead, the best way to dispose of your medication is through a medicine take-back program. Talk to your pharmacist or contact your local garbage/recycling department to learn about take-back programs in your community. See the FDA's Safe Disposal of Medicines website ( http://goo.gl/c4Rm4p ) for more information if you do not have access to a take-back program. It is important to keep all medication out of sight and reach of children as many containers (such as weekly pill minders and those for eye drops, creams, patches, and inhalers) are not child-resistant and young children can open them easily. To protect young children from poisoning, always lock safety caps and immediately place the medication in a safe location – one that is up and away and out of their sight and reach. http://www.upandaway.org In case of emergency/overdose In case of overdose, call the poison control helpline at 1-800-222-1222. Information is also available online at https://www.poisonhelp.org/help . If the victim has collapsed, had a seizure, has trouble breathing, or can't be awakened, immediately call emergency services at 911. What other information should I know? If you are taking the 24-hour extended-release tablets, you may notice something that looks like a tablet in your stool. This is just the empty tablet shell, and this does not mean that you did not get your complete dose of medication. Ask your pharmacist any questions you have about pseudoephedrine. It is important for you to keep a written list of all of the prescription and nonprescription (over-the-counter) medicines you are taking, as well as any products such as vitamins, minerals, or other dietary supplements. You should bring this list with you each time you visit a doctor or if you are admitted to a hospital. It is also important information to carry with you in case of emergencies. Brand names Afrinol ® ¶ Cenafed ® ¶ Children's Sudafed Nasal Decongestant ® Congestaclear ® ¶ Efidac ® ¶ Myfedrine ® ¶ Pseudocot ® ¶ Ridafed ® ¶ Silfedrine ® Sudafed 12/24 Hour ® Sudafed Congestion ® Sudodrin ® ¶ SudoGest ® Sudrine ® ¶ Superfed ® ¶ Suphedrin ® Allegra-D® (as a combination product containing Fexofenadine, Pseudoephedrine)











[ Aliskiren pronounced as (a lis kye' ren) To use the sharing features on this page, please enable JavaScript. Why is this medication prescribed? How should this medicine be used? Other uses for this medicine What special precautions should I follow? What special dietary instructions should I follow? What should I do if I forget a dose? What side effects can this medication cause? What should I know about storage and disposal of this medication? In case of emergency/overdose What other information should I know? Brand names IMPORTANT WARNING: Do not take aliskiren if you are pregnant. If you become pregnant while taking aliskiren, call your doctor immediately. Aliskiren may harm the fetus. Why is this medication prescribed? Aliskiren is used alone or in combination with some medications to treat high blood pressure. Aliskiren is in a class of medications called direct renin inhibitors. It works by decreasing certain natural chemicals that tighten the blood vessels, so blood vessels relax and the heart can pump blood more efficiently. High blood pressure is a common condition and when not treated, can cause damage to the brain, heart, blood vessels, kidneys and other parts of the body. Damage to these organs may cause heart disease, a heart attack, heart failure, stroke, kidney failure, loss of vision, and other problems. In addition to taking medication, making lifestyle changes will also help to control your blood pressure. These changes include eating a diet that is low in fat and salt, maintaining a healthy weight, exercising at least 30 minutes most days, not smoking, and using alcohol in moderation. How should this medicine be used? Aliskiren comes as a tablet to take by mouth. It is usually taken once a day. Aliskiren should be taken either always with food or always without food. Take aliskiren at around the same time every day. Follow the directions on your prescription label carefully, and ask your doctor or pharmacist to explain any part you do not understand. Take aliskiren exactly as directed. Do not take more or less of it or take it more often than prescribed by your doctor. Your doctor will probably start you on an low dose of aliskiren and may increase your dose after you have been taking this medication for at least 2 weeks. Aliskiren controls high blood pressure but does not cure it. Continue to take aliskiren even if you feel well. Do not stop taking aliskiren without talking to your doctor. Ask your pharmacist or doctor for a copy of the manufacturer's information for the patient. Other uses for this medicine This medication may be prescribed for other uses; ask your doctor or pharmacist for more information. What special precautions should I follow? Before taking aliskiren, tell your doctor and pharmacist if you are allergic to aliskiren, an angiotensin-converting enzyme (ACE) inhibitor such as benazepril (Lotensin, in Lotrel), captopril (Capoten), enalapril (Vasotec, in Vaseretic), fosinopril, lisinopril (in Prinzide, in Zestoretic), moexipril (Univasc, in Uniretic), perindopril (Aceon), quinapril (Accupril, in Accuretic, in Quinaretic), ramipril (Altace), and trandolapril (Mavik, in Tarka);, any other medications, or any of the ingredients in aliskiren tablets. Ask your pharmacist or check the patient information for a list of the ingredients. Some medications should not be taken with aliskiren. Other medications may require dosing changes or extra monitoring when taken with aliskiren. Make sure you have discussed any medications you are currently taking or plan to take before starting aliskiren with your doctor and pharmacist. Before starting, stopping, or changing any medications while taking aliskiren, please get the advice of your doctor or pharmacist. The following nonprescription products may interact with aliskiren: aspirin; NSAIDs [ibuprofen (Advil, Motrin) and naproxen (Aleve, Naprosyn)]; potassium supplements. Be sure to let your doctor and pharmacist know that you are taking these medications before you start taking aliskiren. Do not start any of these medications while taking aliskiren without discussing with your healthcare provider.. tell your doctor if you have or have ever had diabetes, seizures, a heart attack or heart failure, or kidney disease. tell your doctor if you plan to become pregnant or if you are breast-feeding. Do not breast-feed while taking aliskiren. you should know that diarrhea, vomiting, not drinking enough fluids, and sweating a lot can cause a drop in blood pressure, which may cause lightheadedness and fainting. Tell your doctor if you have any of these problems or develop them during your treatment. What special dietary instructions should I follow? You should try to avoid eating a high fat meal (foods such as fried foods or fast foods) when taking aliskiren with a meal. You should not use salt substitutes containing potassium or take potassium supplements without first talking with your doctor. What should I do if I forget a dose? Take the missed dose as soon as you remember it. However, if it is almost time for the next dose, skip the missed dose and continue your regular dosing schedule. Do not take a double dose to make up for a missed one. What side effects can this medication cause? Aliskiren may cause side effects. Tell your doctor if any of these symptoms are severe or do not go away: diarrhea stomach pain heartburn cough rash dizziness headache back pain Some side effects can be serious. If you experience any of these symptoms, stop taking aliskiren and call your doctor immediately or get emergency medical treatment: lightheadedness and fainting swelling of the face, throat, tongue, lips, eyes, hands, feet, ankles, or lower legs blisters or peeling skin hoarseness difficulty swallowing or breathing seizure slow, weak, or irregular heart beat Aliskiren may cause other side effects. Call your doctor if you have any unusual problems while taking this medication. What should I know about storage and disposal of this medication? Keep this medication in the container it came in, tightly closed, and out of reach of children. Store it at room temperature and away from excess heat and moisture (not in the bathroom). Do not remove the desiccant (drying agent) from the bottle, if one has been provided. Unneeded medications should be disposed of in special ways to ensure that pets, children, and other people cannot consume them. However, you should not flush this medication down the toilet. Instead, the best way to dispose of your medication is through a medicine take-back program. Talk to your pharmacist or contact your local garbage/recycling department to learn about take-back programs in your community. See the FDA's Safe Disposal of Medicines website ( http://goo.gl/c4Rm4p ) for more information if you do not have access to a take-back program. It is important to keep all medication out of sight and reach of children as many containers (such as weekly pill minders and those for eye drops, creams, patches, and inhalers) are not child-resistant and young children can open them easily. To protect young children from poisoning, always lock safety caps and immediately place the medication in a safe location – one that is up and away and out of their sight and reach. http://www.upandaway.org In case of emergency/overdose In case of overdose, call the poison control helpline at 1-800-222-1222. Information is also available online at https://www.poisonhelp.org/help . If the victim has collapsed, had a seizure, has trouble breathing, or can't be awakened, immediately call emergency services at 911. Symptoms of overdose may include: fainting dizziness blurred vision nausea What other information should I know? Keep all appointments with your doctor and the laboratory. Your doctor may order lab tests to check your body's response to aliskiren. Do not let anyone else take your medication. Ask your pharmacist any questions you have about refilling your prescription. It is important for you to keep a written list of all of the prescription and nonprescription (over-the-counter) medicines you are taking, as well as any products such as vitamins, minerals, or other dietary supplements. You should bring this list with you each time you visit a doctor or if you are admitted to a hospital. It is also important information to carry with you in case of emergencies. Brand names Tekturna ®



[ Calcium Carbonate pronounced as (kal' see um) (kar' bon ate) To use the sharing features on this page, please enable JavaScript. Why is this medication prescribed? How should this medicine be used? What special precautions should I follow? What should I do if I forget a dose? What side effects can this medication cause? What should I know about storage and disposal of this medication? In case of emergency/overdose What other information should I know? Brand names Why is this medication prescribed? Calcium carbonate is a dietary supplement used when the amount of calcium taken in the diet is not enough. Calcium is needed by the body for healthy bones, muscles, nervous system, and heart. Calcium carbonate also is used as an antacid to relieve heartburn, acid indigestion, and upset stomach. It is available with or without a prescription. This medication is sometimes prescribed for other uses; ask your doctor or pharmacist for more information. How should this medicine be used? Calcium carbonate comes as a tablet, chewable tablet, capsule, and liquid to take by mouth. It is usually taken three or four times a day. Follow the directions on your prescription or package label carefully, and ask your doctor or pharmacist to explain any part you do not understand. Take calcium carbonate exactly as directed. Do not take more or less of it or take it more often than prescribed by your doctor. When using this medicine as a dietary supplement, take it with food or following meals. Chewable tablets should be chewed thoroughly before being swallowed; do not swallow them whole. Drink a full glass of water after taking either the regular or chewable tablets or capsules. Some liquid forms of calcium carbonate must be shaken well before use. Do not take calcium carbonate as an antacid for more than 2 weeks unless your doctor tells you to. What special precautions should I follow? Before taking calcium carbonate, tell your doctor and pharmacist if you are allergic to calcium carbonate or any other drugs. Tell your doctor and pharmacist what prescription and nonprescription medications, vitamins, nutritional supplements, and herbal products you are taking or plan to take while taking calcium carbonate. Your doctor may need to change the doses of your medications or monitor you carefully for side effects.. Do not take calcium carbonate within 1-2 hours of taking other medicines. Calcium may decrease the effectiveness of the other medicine. tell your doctor if you have or have ever had kidney disease or stomach conditions. tell your doctor if you are pregnant, plan to become pregnant, or are breast-feeding. If you become pregnant while taking calcium carbonate, call your doctor. What should I do if I forget a dose? If you are taking calcium carbonate on a regular schedule, take the missed dose as soon you remember it. However, if it is almost time for the next dose, skip the missed dose and continue your regular dosing schedule. Do not take a double dose to make up for a missed one. What side effects can this medication cause? Calcium carbonate may cause side effects. Tell your doctor if any of these symptoms are severe or do not go away: upset stomach vomiting stomach pain belching constipation dry mouth increased urination loss of appetite metallic taste What should I know about storage and disposal of this medication? Keep this medication in the container it came in, tightly closed, and out of reach of children. Store it at room temperature and away from excess heat and moisture (not in the bathroom). Unneeded medications should be disposed of in special ways to ensure that pets, children, and other people cannot consume them. However, you should not flush this medication down the toilet. Instead, the best way to dispose of your medication is through a medicine take-back program. Talk to your pharmacist or contact your local garbage/recycling department to learn about take-back programs in your community. See the FDA's Safe Disposal of Medicines website ( http://goo.gl/c4Rm4p ) for more information if you do not have access to a take-back program. It is important to keep all medication out of sight and reach of children as many containers (such as weekly pill minders and those for eye drops, creams, patches, and inhalers) are not child-resistant and young children can open them easily. To protect young children from poisoning, always lock safety caps and immediately place the medication in a safe location – one that is up and away and out of their sight and reach. http://www.upandaway.org In case of emergency/overdose In case of overdose, call the poison control helpline at 1-800-222-1222. Information is also available online at https://www.poisonhelp.org/help . If the victim has collapsed, had a seizure, has trouble breathing, or can't be awakened, immediately call emergency services at 911. What other information should I know? If this medicine has been prescribed for you, keep all appointments with your doctor so that your response to calcium carbonate can be checked. Do not let anyone else take your medicine. It is important for you to keep a written list of all of the prescription and nonprescription (over-the-counter) medicines you are taking, as well as any products such as vitamins, minerals, or other dietary supplements. You should bring this list with you each time you visit a doctor or if you are admitted to a hospital. It is also important information to carry with you in case of emergencies. Brand names Alka-Mints ® Calel-D ® Calcid ® Caltrate 600 ® Chooz ® Miralac ® Os-Cal 500 ® Rolaids ® Titralac ® Tums ®

[ Aspirin pronounced as (as' pir in) To use the sharing features on this page, please enable JavaScript. Why is this medication prescribed? How should this medicine be used? Other uses for this medicine What special precautions should I follow? What special dietary instructions should I follow? What should I do if I forget a dose? What side effects can this medication cause? What should I know about storage and disposal of this medication? In case of emergency/overdose What other information should I know? Brand names Other names Why is this medication prescribed? Prescription aspirin is used to relieve the symptoms of rheumatoid arthritis (arthritis caused by swelling of the lining of the joints), osteoarthritis (arthritis caused by breakdown of the lining of the joints), systemic lupus erythematosus (condition in which the immune system attacks the joints and organs and causes pain and swelling) and certain other rheumatologic conditions (conditions in which the immune system attacks parts of the body). Nonprescription aspirin is used to reduce fever and to relieve mild to moderate pain from headaches, menstrual periods, arthritis, toothaches, and muscle aches. Nonprescription aspirin is also used to prevent heart attacks in people who have had a heart attack in the past or who have angina (chest pain that occurs when the heart does not get enough oxygen). Nonprescription aspirin is also used to reduce the risk of death in people who are experiencing or who have recently experienced a heart attack. Nonprescription aspirin is also used to prevent ischemic strokes (strokes that occur when a blood clot blocks the flow of blood to the brain) or mini-strokes (strokes that occur when the flow of blood to the brain is blocked for a short time) in people who have had this type of stroke or mini-stroke in the past. Aspirin will not prevent hemorrhagic strokes (strokes caused by bleeding in the brain). Aspirin is in a group of medications called salicylates. It works by stopping the production of certain natural substances that cause fever, pain, swelling, and blood clots. Aspirin is also available in combination with other medications such as antacids, pain relievers, and cough and cold medications. This monograph only includes information about the use of aspirin alone. If you are taking a combination product, read the information on the package or prescription label or ask your doctor or pharmacist for more information. How should this medicine be used? Prescription aspirin comes as an extended-release (long-acting) tablet. Nonprescription aspirin comes as a regular tablet, a delayed-release (releases the medication in the intestine to prevent damage to the stomach) tablet, a chewable tablet, powder, and a gum to take by mouth. Prescription aspirin is usually taken two or more times a day. Nonprescription aspirin is usually taken once a day to lower the risk of a heart attack or stroke. Nonprescription aspirin is usually taken every 4 to 6 hours as needed to treat fever or pain. Follow the directions on the package or prescription label carefully, and ask your doctor or pharmacist to explain any part you do not understand. Take aspirin exactly as directed. Do not take more or less of it or take it more often than directed by the package label or prescribed by your doctor. Swallow the extended-release tablets whole with a full glass of water. Do not break, crush, or chew them. Swallow the delayed-release tablets with a full glass of water. Chewable aspirin tablets may be chewed, crushed, or swallowed whole. Drink a full glass of water, immediately after taking these tablets. Ask a doctor before you give aspirin to your child or teenager. Aspirin may cause Reye's syndrome (a serious condition in which fat builds up on the brain, liver, and other body organs) in children and teenagers, especially if they have a virus such as chicken pox or the flu. If you have had oral surgery or surgery to remove your tonsils in the last 7 days, talk to your doctor about which types of aspirin are safe for you. Delayed-release tablets begin to work some time after they are taken. Do not take delayed-release tablets for fever or pain that must be relieved quickly. Stop taking aspirin and call your doctor if your fever lasts longer than 3 days, if your pain lasts longer than 10 days, or if the part of your body that was painful becomes red or swollen. You may have a condition that must be treated by a doctor. Other uses for this medicine Aspirin is also sometimes used to treat rheumatic fever (a serious condition that may develop after a strep throat infection and may cause swelling of the heart valves) and Kawasaki disease (an illness that may cause heart problems in children). Aspirin is also sometimes used to lower the risk of blood clots in patients who have artificial heart valves or certain other heart conditions and to prevent certain complications of pregnancy. What special precautions should I follow? Before taking aspirin, tell your doctor and pharmacist if you are allergic to aspirin, other medications for pain or fever, tartrazine dye, or any other medications. tell your doctor and pharmacist what prescription and nonprescription medications, vitamins, nutritional supplements, and herbal products you are taking or plan to take. Be sure to mention any of the following: acetazolamide (Diamox); angiotensin-converting enzyme (ACE) inhibitors such as benazepril (Lotensin), captopril (Capoten), enalapril (Vasotec), fosinopril (Monopril), lisinopril (Prinivil, Zestril), moexipril (Univasc), perindopril, (Aceon), quinapril (Accupril), ramipril (Altace), and trandolapril (Mavik); anticoagulants ('blood thinners') such as warfarin (Coumadin) and heparin; beta blockers such as atenolol (Tenormin), labetalol (Normodyne), metoprolol (Lopressor, Toprol XL), nadolol (Corgard), and propranolol (Inderal); diuretics ('water pills'); medications for diabetes or arthritis; medications for gout such as probenecid and sulfinpyrazone (Anturane); methotrexate (Trexall); other nonsteroidal anti-inflammatory drugs (NSAIDs) such as naproxen (Aleve, Naprosyn); phenytoin (Dilantin); and valproic acid (Depakene, Depakote). Your doctor may need to change the doses of your medications or monitor you more carefully for side effects. if you are taking aspirin on a regular basis to prevent heart attack or stroke, do not take ibuprofen (Advil, Motrin) to treat pain or fever without talking to your doctor. Your doctor will probably tell you to allow some time to pass between taking your daily dose of aspirin and taking a dose of ibuprofen. tell your doctor if you have or have ever had asthma, frequent stuffed or runny nose, or nasal polyps (growths on the linings of the nose). If you have these conditions, there is a risk that you will have an allergic reaction to aspirin. Your doctor may tell you that you should not take aspirin. tell your doctor if you often have heartburn, upset stomach, or stomach pain and if you have or have ever had ulcers, anemia, bleeding problems such as hemophilia, or kidney or liver disease. tell your doctor if you are pregnant, you plan to become pregnant, or if you are breast-feeding. Low dose aspirin 81-mg may be taken during pregnancy, but aspirin doses greater that 81 mg may harm the fetus and cause problems with delivery if it is taken around 20 weeks or later during pregnancy. Do not take aspirin doses greater that 81 mg (e.g., 325 mg) around or after 20 weeks of pregnancy, unless told to do so by your doctor. If you become pregnant while taking aspirin or aspirin containing medications, call your doctor. if you are having surgery, including dental surgery, tell the doctor or dentist that you are taking aspirin. if you drink three or more alcoholic drinks every day, ask your doctor if you should take aspirin or other medications for pain and fever. What special dietary instructions should I follow? Unless your doctor tells you otherwise, continue your normal diet. What should I do if I forget a dose? If your doctor has told you to take aspirin on a regular basis and you miss a dose, take the missed dose as soon as you remember it. However, if it is almost time for the next dose, skip the missed dose and continue your regular dosing schedule. Do not take a double dose to make up for a missed one. What side effects can this medication cause? Aspirin may cause side effects. Tell your doctor if any of these symptoms are severe or do not go away: nausea vomiting stomach pain heartburn Some side effects can be serious. If you experience any of the following symptoms, call your doctor immediately: hives rash swelling of the eyes, face, lips, tongue, or throat wheezing or difficulty breathing hoarseness fast heartbeat fast breathing cold, clammy skin ringing in the ears loss of hearing bloody vomit vomit that looks like coffee grounds bright red blood in stools black or tarry stools Aspirin may cause other side effects. Call your doctor if you experience any unusual problems while you are taking this medication. If you experience a serious side effect, you or your doctor may send a report to the Food and Drug Administration's (FDA) MedWatch Adverse Event Reporting program online ( http://www.fda.gov/Safety/MedWatch ) or by phone (1-800-332-1088). What should I know about storage and disposal of this medication? Keep this medication in the container it came in, tightly closed, and out of reach of children. Store it at room temperature and away from excess heat and moisture (not in the bathroom). Dispose of any tablets that have a strong vinegar smell. It is important to keep all medication out of sight and reach of children as many containers (such as weekly pill minders and those for eye drops, creams, patches, and inhalers) are not child-resistant and young children can open them easily. To protect young children from poisoning, always lock safety caps and immediately place the medication in a safe location – one that is up and away and out of their sight and reach. http://www.upandaway.org Unneeded medications should be disposed of in special ways to ensure that pets, children, and other people cannot consume them. However, you should not flush this medication down the toilet. Instead, the best way to dispose of your medication is through a medicine take-back program. Talk to your pharmacist or contact your local garbage/recycling department to learn about take-back programs in your community. See the FDA's Safe Disposal of Medicines website ( http://goo.gl/c4Rm4p ) for more information if you do not have access to a take-back program. In case of emergency/overdose In case of overdose, call the poison control helpline at 1-800-222-1222. Information is also available online at https://www.poisonhelp.org/help . If the victim has collapsed, had a seizure, has trouble breathing, or can't be awakened, immediately call emergency services at 911. Symptoms of overdose may include: burning pain in the throat or stomach vomiting decreased urination fever restlessness irritability talking a lot and saying things that do not make sense fear or nervousness dizziness double vision uncontrollable shaking of a part of the body confusion abnormally excited mood hallucination (seeing things or hearing voices that are not there) seizures drowsiness loss of consciousness for a period of time What other information should I know? Keep all appointments with your doctor. If you are taking prescription aspirin, do not let anyone else take your medication. Ask your pharmacist any questions you have about refilling your prescription. It is important for you to keep a written list of all of the prescription and nonprescription (over-the-counter) medicines you are taking, as well as any products such as vitamins, minerals, or other dietary supplements. You should bring this list with you each time you visit a doctor or if you are admitted to a hospital. It is also important information to carry with you in case of emergencies. Brand names Acuprin ® Anacin ® Aspirin Regimen Ascriptin ® Aspergum ® Aspidrox ® Aspir-Mox ® Aspirtab ® Aspir-trin ® Bayer ® Aspirin Bufferin ® Buffex ® Easprin ® Ecotrin ® Empirin ® Entaprin ® Entercote ® Fasprin ® Genacote ® Gennin-FC ® Genprin ® Halfprin ® Magnaprin ® Miniprin ® Minitabs ® Ridiprin ® Sloprin ® Uni-Buff ® Uni-Tren ® Valomag ® Zorprin ®

[ Simethicone pronounced as (sye meth' i kone) To use the sharing features on this page, please enable JavaScript. Why is this medication prescribed? How should this medicine be used? What special precautions should I follow? What should I do if I forget a dose? What side effects can this medication cause? What should I know about storage and disposal of this medication? What other information should I know? Brand names Why is this medication prescribed? Simethicone is used to treat the symptoms of gas such as uncomfortable or painful pressure, fullness, and bloating. This medication is sometimes prescribed for other uses; ask your doctor or pharmacist for more information. How should this medicine be used? Simethicone comes as regular tablets, chewable tablets, capsules, and liquid to take by mouth. It usually is taken four times a day, after meals and at bedtime. Follow the directions on the package or on your prescription label carefully, and ask your doctor or pharmacist to explain any part you do not understand. Take simethicone exactly as directed. Do not take more or less of it or take it more often than prescribed by your doctor. Swallow the regular tablets and capsules whole. Chewable tablets should be chewed thoroughly before being swallowed; do not swallow them whole. Do not take more than six simethicone tablets or eight simethicone capsules each day unless your doctor tells you to. The liquid may be mixed with 1 ounce (30 milliliters) of cool water or infant formula. What special precautions should I follow? Before taking simethicone, tell your doctor and pharmacist if you are allergic to simethicone or any other drugs. tell your doctor and pharmacist what prescription and nonprescription medications you are taking, including vitamins. tell your doctor if you are pregnant, plan to become pregnant, or are breast-feeding. If you become pregnant while taking simethicone, call your doctor. What should I do if I forget a dose? If you are taking simethicone on a regular schedule, take the missed dose as soon you remember it. However, if it is almost time for the next dose, skip the missed dose and continue your regular dosing schedule. Do not take a double dose to make up for a missed one. What side effects can this medication cause? When taken as directed, simethicone usually has no side effects. What should I know about storage and disposal of this medication? Keep this medication in the container it came in, tightly closed, and out of reach of children. Store it at room temperature and away from excess heat and moisture (not in the bathroom). It is important to keep all medication out of sight and reach of children as many containers (such as weekly pill minders and those for eye drops, creams, patches, and inhalers) are not child-resistant and young children can open them easily. To protect young children from poisoning, always lock safety caps and immediately place the medication in a safe location – one that is up and away and out of their sight and reach. http://www.upandaway.org Unneeded medications should be disposed of in special ways to ensure that pets, children, and other people cannot consume them. However, you should not flush this medication down the toilet. Instead, the best way to dispose of your medication is through a medicine take-back program. Talk to your pharmacist or contact your local garbage/recycling department to learn about take-back programs in your community. See the FDA's Safe Disposal of Medicines website ( http://goo.gl/c4Rm4p ) for more information if you do not have access to a take-back program. What other information should I know? Ask your doctor or pharmacist any questions you have about taking this medicine. It is important for you to keep a written list of all of the prescription and nonprescription (over-the-counter) medicines you are taking, as well as any products such as vitamins, minerals, or other dietary supplements. You should bring this list with you each time you visit a doctor or if you are admitted to a hospital. It is also important information to carry with you in case of emergencies. Brand names Alka-Seltzer ® Anti-Gas Colic Drops Colicon ® Degas ® Flatulex ® Drops Gas Aide ® Gas-X ® Genasyme ® Maalox ® Anti-Gas Majorcon ® Micon-80 ® Mylanta ® Gas Mylaval ® Mylicon ® Mytab ® Gas Phazyme ® SonoRx ®

[ Aspirin pronounced as (as' pir in) To use the sharing features on this page, please enable JavaScript. Why is this medication prescribed? How should this medicine be used? Other uses for this medicine What special precautions should I follow? What special dietary instructions should I follow? What should I do if I forget a dose? What side effects can this medication cause? What should I know about storage and disposal of this medication? In case of emergency/overdose What other information should I know? Brand names Other names Why is this medication prescribed? Prescription aspirin is used to relieve the symptoms of rheumatoid arthritis (arthritis caused by swelling of the lining of the joints), osteoarthritis (arthritis caused by breakdown of the lining of the joints), systemic lupus erythematosus (condition in which the immune system attacks the joints and organs and causes pain and swelling) and certain other rheumatologic conditions (conditions in which the immune system attacks parts of the body). Nonprescription aspirin is used to reduce fever and to relieve mild to moderate pain from headaches, menstrual periods, arthritis, toothaches, and muscle aches. Nonprescription aspirin is also used to prevent heart attacks in people who have had a heart attack in the past or who have angina (chest pain that occurs when the heart does not get enough oxygen). Nonprescription aspirin is also used to reduce the risk of death in people who are experiencing or who have recently experienced a heart attack. Nonprescription aspirin is also used to prevent ischemic strokes (strokes that occur when a blood clot blocks the flow of blood to the brain) or mini-strokes (strokes that occur when the flow of blood to the brain is blocked for a short time) in people who have had this type of stroke or mini-stroke in the past. Aspirin will not prevent hemorrhagic strokes (strokes caused by bleeding in the brain). Aspirin is in a group of medications called salicylates. It works by stopping the production of certain natural substances that cause fever, pain, swelling, and blood clots. Aspirin is also available in combination with other medications such as antacids, pain relievers, and cough and cold medications. This monograph only includes information about the use of aspirin alone. If you are taking a combination product, read the information on the package or prescription label or ask your doctor or pharmacist for more information. How should this medicine be used? Prescription aspirin comes as an extended-release (long-acting) tablet. Nonprescription aspirin comes as a regular tablet, a delayed-release (releases the medication in the intestine to prevent damage to the stomach) tablet, a chewable tablet, powder, and a gum to take by mouth. Prescription aspirin is usually taken two or more times a day. Nonprescription aspirin is usually taken once a day to lower the risk of a heart attack or stroke. Nonprescription aspirin is usually taken every 4 to 6 hours as needed to treat fever or pain. Follow the directions on the package or prescription label carefully, and ask your doctor or pharmacist to explain any part you do not understand. Take aspirin exactly as directed. Do not take more or less of it or take it more often than directed by the package label or prescribed by your doctor. Swallow the extended-release tablets whole with a full glass of water. Do not break, crush, or chew them. Swallow the delayed-release tablets with a full glass of water. Chewable aspirin tablets may be chewed, crushed, or swallowed whole. Drink a full glass of water, immediately after taking these tablets. Ask a doctor before you give aspirin to your child or teenager. Aspirin may cause Reye's syndrome (a serious condition in which fat builds up on the brain, liver, and other body organs) in children and teenagers, especially if they have a virus such as chicken pox or the flu. If you have had oral surgery or surgery to remove your tonsils in the last 7 days, talk to your doctor about which types of aspirin are safe for you. Delayed-release tablets begin to work some time after they are taken. Do not take delayed-release tablets for fever or pain that must be relieved quickly. Stop taking aspirin and call your doctor if your fever lasts longer than 3 days, if your pain lasts longer than 10 days, or if the part of your body that was painful becomes red or swollen. You may have a condition that must be treated by a doctor. Other uses for this medicine Aspirin is also sometimes used to treat rheumatic fever (a serious condition that may develop after a strep throat infection and may cause swelling of the heart valves) and Kawasaki disease (an illness that may cause heart problems in children). Aspirin is also sometimes used to lower the risk of blood clots in patients who have artificial heart valves or certain other heart conditions and to prevent certain complications of pregnancy. What special precautions should I follow? Before taking aspirin, tell your doctor and pharmacist if you are allergic to aspirin, other medications for pain or fever, tartrazine dye, or any other medications. tell your doctor and pharmacist what prescription and nonprescription medications, vitamins, nutritional supplements, and herbal products you are taking or plan to take. Be sure to mention any of the following: acetazolamide (Diamox); angiotensin-converting enzyme (ACE) inhibitors such as benazepril (Lotensin), captopril (Capoten), enalapril (Vasotec), fosinopril (Monopril), lisinopril (Prinivil, Zestril), moexipril (Univasc), perindopril, (Aceon), quinapril (Accupril), ramipril (Altace), and trandolapril (Mavik); anticoagulants ('blood thinners') such as warfarin (Coumadin) and heparin; beta blockers such as atenolol (Tenormin), labetalol (Normodyne), metoprolol (Lopressor, Toprol XL), nadolol (Corgard), and propranolol (Inderal); diuretics ('water pills'); medications for diabetes or arthritis; medications for gout such as probenecid and sulfinpyrazone (Anturane); methotrexate (Trexall); other nonsteroidal anti-inflammatory drugs (NSAIDs) such as naproxen (Aleve, Naprosyn); phenytoin (Dilantin); and valproic acid (Depakene, Depakote). Your doctor may need to change the doses of your medications or monitor you more carefully for side effects. if you are taking aspirin on a regular basis to prevent heart attack or stroke, do not take ibuprofen (Advil, Motrin) to treat pain or fever without talking to your doctor. Your doctor will probably tell you to allow some time to pass between taking your daily dose of aspirin and taking a dose of ibuprofen. tell your doctor if you have or have ever had asthma, frequent stuffed or runny nose, or nasal polyps (growths on the linings of the nose). If you have these conditions, there is a risk that you will have an allergic reaction to aspirin. Your doctor may tell you that you should not take aspirin. tell your doctor if you often have heartburn, upset stomach, or stomach pain and if you have or have ever had ulcers, anemia, bleeding problems such as hemophilia, or kidney or liver disease. tell your doctor if you are pregnant, you plan to become pregnant, or if you are breast-feeding. Low dose aspirin 81-mg may be taken during pregnancy, but aspirin doses greater that 81 mg may harm the fetus and cause problems with delivery if it is taken around 20 weeks or later during pregnancy. Do not take aspirin doses greater that 81 mg (e.g., 325 mg) around or after 20 weeks of pregnancy, unless told to do so by your doctor. If you become pregnant while taking aspirin or aspirin containing medications, call your doctor. if you are having surgery, including dental surgery, tell the doctor or dentist that you are taking aspirin. if you drink three or more alcoholic drinks every day, ask your doctor if you should take aspirin or other medications for pain and fever. What special dietary instructions should I follow? Unless your doctor tells you otherwise, continue your normal diet. What should I do if I forget a dose? If your doctor has told you to take aspirin on a regular basis and you miss a dose, take the missed dose as soon as you remember it. However, if it is almost time for the next dose, skip the missed dose and continue your regular dosing schedule. Do not take a double dose to make up for a missed one. What side effects can this medication cause? Aspirin may cause side effects. Tell your doctor if any of these symptoms are severe or do not go away: nausea vomiting stomach pain heartburn Some side effects can be serious. If you experience any of the following symptoms, call your doctor immediately: hives rash swelling of the eyes, face, lips, tongue, or throat wheezing or difficulty breathing hoarseness fast heartbeat fast breathing cold, clammy skin ringing in the ears loss of hearing bloody vomit vomit that looks like coffee grounds bright red blood in stools black or tarry stools Aspirin may cause other side effects. Call your doctor if you experience any unusual problems while you are taking this medication. If you experience a serious side effect, you or your doctor may send a report to the Food and Drug Administration's (FDA) MedWatch Adverse Event Reporting program online ( http://www.fda.gov/Safety/MedWatch ) or by phone (1-800-332-1088). What should I know about storage and disposal of this medication? Keep this medication in the container it came in, tightly closed, and out of reach of children. Store it at room temperature and away from excess heat and moisture (not in the bathroom). Dispose of any tablets that have a strong vinegar smell. It is important to keep all medication out of sight and reach of children as many containers (such as weekly pill minders and those for eye drops, creams, patches, and inhalers) are not child-resistant and young children can open them easily. To protect young children from poisoning, always lock safety caps and immediately place the medication in a safe location – one that is up and away and out of their sight and reach. http://www.upandaway.org Unneeded medications should be disposed of in special ways to ensure that pets, children, and other people cannot consume them. However, you should not flush this medication down the toilet. Instead, the best way to dispose of your medication is through a medicine take-back program. Talk to your pharmacist or contact your local garbage/recycling department to learn about take-back programs in your community. See the FDA's Safe Disposal of Medicines website ( http://goo.gl/c4Rm4p ) for more information if you do not have access to a take-back program. In case of emergency/overdose In case of overdose, call the poison control helpline at 1-800-222-1222. Information is also available online at https://www.poisonhelp.org/help . If the victim has collapsed, had a seizure, has trouble breathing, or can't be awakened, immediately call emergency services at 911. Symptoms of overdose may include: burning pain in the throat or stomach vomiting decreased urination fever restlessness irritability talking a lot and saying things that do not make sense fear or nervousness dizziness double vision uncontrollable shaking of a part of the body confusion abnormally excited mood hallucination (seeing things or hearing voices that are not there) seizures drowsiness loss of consciousness for a period of time What other information should I know? Keep all appointments with your doctor. If you are taking prescription aspirin, do not let anyone else take your medication. Ask your pharmacist any questions you have about refilling your prescription. It is important for you to keep a written list of all of the prescription and nonprescription (over-the-counter) medicines you are taking, as well as any products such as vitamins, minerals, or other dietary supplements. You should bring this list with you each time you visit a doctor or if you are admitted to a hospital. It is also important information to carry with you in case of emergencies. Brand names Acuprin ® Anacin ® Aspirin Regimen Ascriptin ® Aspergum ® Aspidrox ® Aspir-Mox ® Aspirtab ® Aspir-trin ® Bayer ® Aspirin Bufferin ® Buffex ® Easprin ® Ecotrin ® Empirin ® Entaprin ® Entercote ® Fasprin ® Genacote ® Gennin-FC ® Genprin ® Halfprin ® Magnaprin ® Miniprin ® Minitabs ® Ridiprin ® Sloprin ® Uni-Buff ® Uni-Tren ® Valomag ® Zorprin ®

[ Sodium Bicarbonate pronounced as (soe' dee um) (bye kar' bon ate) To use the sharing features on this page, please enable JavaScript. Why is this medication prescribed? How should this medicine be used? What special precautions should I follow? What special dietary instructions should I follow? What should I do if I forget a dose? What side effects can this medication cause? What should I know about storage and disposal of this medication? In case of emergency/overdose What other information should I know? Brand names Other names Why is this medication prescribed? Sodium bicarbonate is an antacid used to relieve heartburn and acid indigestion. Your doctor also may prescribe sodium bicarbonate to make your blood or urine less acidic in certain conditions. This medication is sometimes prescribed for other uses; ask your doctor or pharmacist for more information. How should this medicine be used? Sodium bicarbonate comes as a tablet and powder to take by mouth. Sodium bicarbonate is taken one to four times a day, depending on the reason you take it. Follow the directions on your prescription label carefully, and ask your doctor or pharmacist to explain any part you do not understand. Take sodium bicarbonate exactly as directed. Do not take more or less of it or take it more often than prescribed by your doctor. If you are using sodium bicarbonate as an antacid, it should be taken 1 to 2 hours after meals, with a full glass of water. If you are using sodium bicarbonate for another reason, it may be taken with or without food. Do not take sodium bicarbonate on an overly full stomach. Dissolve sodium bicarbonate powder in at least 4 ounces (120 milliliters) of water. Measure powdered doses carefully using a measuring spoon. Do not use sodium bicarbonate for longer than 2 weeks unless your doctor tells you to. If sodium bicarbonate does not improve your symptoms, call your doctor. Do not give sodium bicarbonate to children under 12 years of age unless your doctor tells you to. What special precautions should I follow? Before taking sodium bicarbonate, tell your doctor and pharmacist what prescription and nonprescription medications you are taking, especially other antacids, aspirin or aspirin-like medicines, benzodiazepines, flecainide (Tambocor), iron, ketoconazole (Nizoral), lithium (Eskalith, Lithobid), methenamine (Hiprex, Urex), methotrexate, quinidine, sulfa-containing antibiotics, tetracycline (Sumycin), or vitamins. Take sodium bicarbonate at least 2 hours apart from other medicines. tell your doctor if you have or have ever had high blood pressure, congestive heart failure, or kidney disease or if you have recently had bleeding in your stomach or intestine. tell your doctor if you are pregnant, plan to become pregnant, or are breast-feeding. If you become pregnant while taking sodium bicarbonate, call your doctor. What special dietary instructions should I follow? This medicine increases the amount of sodium in your body. If you are on a sodium-restricted diet, check with your doctor before taking sodium bicarbonate. What should I do if I forget a dose? If your doctor has told you to take sodium bicarbonate on a certain schedule, take the missed dose as soon as you remember it. However, if it is almost time for the next dose, skip the missed dose and continue your regular dosing schedule. Do not take a double dose to make up for a missed one. What side effects can this medication cause? Sodium bicarbonate may cause side effects. Tell your doctor if any of these symptoms are severe or do not go away: increased thirst stomach cramps gas If you have any of the following symptoms, stop taking sodium bicarbonate and call your doctor immediately: severe headache nausea vomit that resembles coffee grounds loss of appetite irritability weakness frequent urge to urinate slow breathing swelling of feet or lower legs bloody, black, or tarry stools blood in your urine If you experience a serious side effect, you or your doctor may send a report to the Food and Drug Administration's (FDA) MedWatch Adverse Event Reporting program online ( http://www.fda.gov/Safety/MedWatch ) or by phone (1-800-332-1088). What should I know about storage and disposal of this medication? Keep this medication in the container it came in, tightly closed, and out of reach of children. Store it at room temperature and away from excess heat and moisture (not in the bathroom). Unneeded medications should be disposed of in special ways to ensure that pets, children, and other people cannot consume them. However, you should not flush this medication down the toilet. Instead, the best way to dispose of your medication is through a medicine take-back program. Talk to your pharmacist or contact your local garbage/recycling department to learn about take-back programs in your community. See the FDA's Safe Disposal of Medicines website ( http://goo.gl/c4Rm4p ) for more information if you do not have access to a take-back program. It is important to keep all medication out of sight and reach of children as many containers (such as weekly pill minders and those for eye drops, creams, patches, and inhalers) are not child-resistant and young children can open them easily. To protect young children from poisoning, always lock safety caps and immediately place the medication in a safe location – one that is up and away and out of their sight and reach. http://www.upandaway.org In case of emergency/overdose In case of overdose, call the poison control helpline at 1-800-222-1222. Information is also available online at https://www.poisonhelp.org/help . If the victim has collapsed, had a seizure, has trouble breathing, or can't be awakened, immediately call emergency services at 911. What other information should I know? If your doctor has prescribed sodium bicarbonate, keep all scheduled appointments so that your response to the medicine can be checked. It is important for you to keep a written list of all of the prescription and nonprescription (over-the-counter) medicines you are taking, as well as any products such as vitamins, minerals, or other dietary supplements. You should bring this list with you each time you visit a doctor or if you are admitted to a hospital. It is also important information to carry with you in case of emergencies. Brand names Alka-Seltzer ® Heartburn

[ Aspirin pronounced as (as' pir in) To use the sharing features on this page, please enable JavaScript. Why is this medication prescribed? How should this medicine be used? Other uses for this medicine What special precautions should I follow? What special dietary instructions should I follow? What should I do if I forget a dose? What side effects can this medication cause? What should I know about storage and disposal of this medication? In case of emergency/overdose What other information should I know? Brand names Other names Why is this medication prescribed? Prescription aspirin is used to relieve the symptoms of rheumatoid arthritis (arthritis caused by swelling of the lining of the joints), osteoarthritis (arthritis caused by breakdown of the lining of the joints), systemic lupus erythematosus (condition in which the immune system attacks the joints and organs and causes pain and swelling) and certain other rheumatologic conditions (conditions in which the immune system attacks parts of the body). Nonprescription aspirin is used to reduce fever and to relieve mild to moderate pain from headaches, menstrual periods, arthritis, toothaches, and muscle aches. Nonprescription aspirin is also used to prevent heart attacks in people who have had a heart attack in the past or who have angina (chest pain that occurs when the heart does not get enough oxygen). Nonprescription aspirin is also used to reduce the risk of death in people who are experiencing or who have recently experienced a heart attack. Nonprescription aspirin is also used to prevent ischemic strokes (strokes that occur when a blood clot blocks the flow of blood to the brain) or mini-strokes (strokes that occur when the flow of blood to the brain is blocked for a short time) in people who have had this type of stroke or mini-stroke in the past. Aspirin will not prevent hemorrhagic strokes (strokes caused by bleeding in the brain). Aspirin is in a group of medications called salicylates. It works by stopping the production of certain natural substances that cause fever, pain, swelling, and blood clots. Aspirin is also available in combination with other medications such as antacids, pain relievers, and cough and cold medications. This monograph only includes information about the use of aspirin alone. If you are taking a combination product, read the information on the package or prescription label or ask your doctor or pharmacist for more information. How should this medicine be used? Prescription aspirin comes as an extended-release (long-acting) tablet. Nonprescription aspirin comes as a regular tablet, a delayed-release (releases the medication in the intestine to prevent damage to the stomach) tablet, a chewable tablet, powder, and a gum to take by mouth. Prescription aspirin is usually taken two or more times a day. Nonprescription aspirin is usually taken once a day to lower the risk of a heart attack or stroke. Nonprescription aspirin is usually taken every 4 to 6 hours as needed to treat fever or pain. Follow the directions on the package or prescription label carefully, and ask your doctor or pharmacist to explain any part you do not understand. Take aspirin exactly as directed. Do not take more or less of it or take it more often than directed by the package label or prescribed by your doctor. Swallow the extended-release tablets whole with a full glass of water. Do not break, crush, or chew them. Swallow the delayed-release tablets with a full glass of water. Chewable aspirin tablets may be chewed, crushed, or swallowed whole. Drink a full glass of water, immediately after taking these tablets. Ask a doctor before you give aspirin to your child or teenager. Aspirin may cause Reye's syndrome (a serious condition in which fat builds up on the brain, liver, and other body organs) in children and teenagers, especially if they have a virus such as chicken pox or the flu. If you have had oral surgery or surgery to remove your tonsils in the last 7 days, talk to your doctor about which types of aspirin are safe for you. Delayed-release tablets begin to work some time after they are taken. Do not take delayed-release tablets for fever or pain that must be relieved quickly. Stop taking aspirin and call your doctor if your fever lasts longer than 3 days, if your pain lasts longer than 10 days, or if the part of your body that was painful becomes red or swollen. You may have a condition that must be treated by a doctor. Other uses for this medicine Aspirin is also sometimes used to treat rheumatic fever (a serious condition that may develop after a strep throat infection and may cause swelling of the heart valves) and Kawasaki disease (an illness that may cause heart problems in children). Aspirin is also sometimes used to lower the risk of blood clots in patients who have artificial heart valves or certain other heart conditions and to prevent certain complications of pregnancy. What special precautions should I follow? Before taking aspirin, tell your doctor and pharmacist if you are allergic to aspirin, other medications for pain or fever, tartrazine dye, or any other medications. tell your doctor and pharmacist what prescription and nonprescription medications, vitamins, nutritional supplements, and herbal products you are taking or plan to take. Be sure to mention any of the following: acetazolamide (Diamox); angiotensin-converting enzyme (ACE) inhibitors such as benazepril (Lotensin), captopril (Capoten), enalapril (Vasotec), fosinopril (Monopril), lisinopril (Prinivil, Zestril), moexipril (Univasc), perindopril, (Aceon), quinapril (Accupril), ramipril (Altace), and trandolapril (Mavik); anticoagulants ('blood thinners') such as warfarin (Coumadin) and heparin; beta blockers such as atenolol (Tenormin), labetalol (Normodyne), metoprolol (Lopressor, Toprol XL), nadolol (Corgard), and propranolol (Inderal); diuretics ('water pills'); medications for diabetes or arthritis; medications for gout such as probenecid and sulfinpyrazone (Anturane); methotrexate (Trexall); other nonsteroidal anti-inflammatory drugs (NSAIDs) such as naproxen (Aleve, Naprosyn); phenytoin (Dilantin); and valproic acid (Depakene, Depakote). Your doctor may need to change the doses of your medications or monitor you more carefully for side effects. if you are taking aspirin on a regular basis to prevent heart attack or stroke, do not take ibuprofen (Advil, Motrin) to treat pain or fever without talking to your doctor. Your doctor will probably tell you to allow some time to pass between taking your daily dose of aspirin and taking a dose of ibuprofen. tell your doctor if you have or have ever had asthma, frequent stuffed or runny nose, or nasal polyps (growths on the linings of the nose). If you have these conditions, there is a risk that you will have an allergic reaction to aspirin. Your doctor may tell you that you should not take aspirin. tell your doctor if you often have heartburn, upset stomach, or stomach pain and if you have or have ever had ulcers, anemia, bleeding problems such as hemophilia, or kidney or liver disease. tell your doctor if you are pregnant, you plan to become pregnant, or if you are breast-feeding. Low dose aspirin 81-mg may be taken during pregnancy, but aspirin doses greater that 81 mg may harm the fetus and cause problems with delivery if it is taken around 20 weeks or later during pregnancy. Do not take aspirin doses greater that 81 mg (e.g., 325 mg) around or after 20 weeks of pregnancy, unless told to do so by your doctor. If you become pregnant while taking aspirin or aspirin containing medications, call your doctor. if you are having surgery, including dental surgery, tell the doctor or dentist that you are taking aspirin. if you drink three or more alcoholic drinks every day, ask your doctor if you should take aspirin or other medications for pain and fever. What special dietary instructions should I follow? Unless your doctor tells you otherwise, continue your normal diet. What should I do if I forget a dose? If your doctor has told you to take aspirin on a regular basis and you miss a dose, take the missed dose as soon as you remember it. However, if it is almost time for the next dose, skip the missed dose and continue your regular dosing schedule. Do not take a double dose to make up for a missed one. What side effects can this medication cause? Aspirin may cause side effects. Tell your doctor if any of these symptoms are severe or do not go away: nausea vomiting stomach pain heartburn Some side effects can be serious. If you experience any of the following symptoms, call your doctor immediately: hives rash swelling of the eyes, face, lips, tongue, or throat wheezing or difficulty breathing hoarseness fast heartbeat fast breathing cold, clammy skin ringing in the ears loss of hearing bloody vomit vomit that looks like coffee grounds bright red blood in stools black or tarry stools Aspirin may cause other side effects. Call your doctor if you experience any unusual problems while you are taking this medication. If you experience a serious side effect, you or your doctor may send a report to the Food and Drug Administration's (FDA) MedWatch Adverse Event Reporting program online ( http://www.fda.gov/Safety/MedWatch ) or by phone (1-800-332-1088). What should I know about storage and disposal of this medication? Keep this medication in the container it came in, tightly closed, and out of reach of children. Store it at room temperature and away from excess heat and moisture (not in the bathroom). Dispose of any tablets that have a strong vinegar smell. It is important to keep all medication out of sight and reach of children as many containers (such as weekly pill minders and those for eye drops, creams, patches, and inhalers) are not child-resistant and young children can open them easily. To protect young children from poisoning, always lock safety caps and immediately place the medication in a safe location – one that is up and away and out of their sight and reach. http://www.upandaway.org Unneeded medications should be disposed of in special ways to ensure that pets, children, and other people cannot consume them. However, you should not flush this medication down the toilet. Instead, the best way to dispose of your medication is through a medicine take-back program. Talk to your pharmacist or contact your local garbage/recycling department to learn about take-back programs in your community. See the FDA's Safe Disposal of Medicines website ( http://goo.gl/c4Rm4p ) for more information if you do not have access to a take-back program. In case of emergency/overdose In case of overdose, call the poison control helpline at 1-800-222-1222. Information is also available online at https://www.poisonhelp.org/help . If the victim has collapsed, had a seizure, has trouble breathing, or can't be awakened, immediately call emergency services at 911. Symptoms of overdose may include: burning pain in the throat or stomach vomiting decreased urination fever restlessness irritability talking a lot and saying things that do not make sense fear or nervousness dizziness double vision uncontrollable shaking of a part of the body confusion abnormally excited mood hallucination (seeing things or hearing voices that are not there) seizures drowsiness loss of consciousness for a period of time What other information should I know? Keep all appointments with your doctor. If you are taking prescription aspirin, do not let anyone else take your medication. Ask your pharmacist any questions you have about refilling your prescription. It is important for you to keep a written list of all of the prescription and nonprescription (over-the-counter) medicines you are taking, as well as any products such as vitamins, minerals, or other dietary supplements. You should bring this list with you each time you visit a doctor or if you are admitted to a hospital. It is also important information to carry with you in case of emergencies. Brand names Acuprin ® Anacin ® Aspirin Regimen Ascriptin ® Aspergum ® Aspidrox ® Aspir-Mox ® Aspirtab ® Aspir-trin ® Bayer ® Aspirin Bufferin ® Buffex ® Easprin ® Ecotrin ® Empirin ® Entaprin ® Entercote ® Fasprin ® Genacote ® Gennin-FC ® Genprin ® Halfprin ® Magnaprin ® Miniprin ® Minitabs ® Ridiprin ® Sloprin ® Uni-Buff ® Uni-Tren ® Valomag ® Zorprin ®

[ Phenylephrine pronounced as (fen il ef' rin)  Phenylephrine is used to relieve nasal discomfort caused by colds, allergies, and hay fever. It is also used to relieve sinus congestion and pressure. Phenylephrine will relieve symptoms but will not treat the cause of the symptoms or speed recovery. Phenylephrine is in a class of medications called nasal decongestants. It works by reducing swelling of the blood vessels in the nasal passages. How should this medicine be used? Phenylephrine comes as a tablet, a liquid, or a dissolving strip to take by mouth. It is usually taken every 4 hours as needed. Follow the directions on your prescription label or the package label carefully, and ask your doctor or pharmacist to explain any part you do not understand. Take phenylephrine exactly as directed. Do not take more or less of it or take it more often than prescribed by your doctor or directed on the label. Phenylephrine comes alone and in combination with other medications. Ask your doctor or pharmacist for advice on which product is best for your symptoms. Check nonprescription cough and cold product labels carefully before using two or more products at the same time. These products may contain the same active ingredient(s) and taking them together could cause you to receive an overdose. This is especially important if you will be giving cough and cold medications to a child. Nonprescription cough and cold combination products, including products that contain phenylephrine, can cause serious side effects or death in young children. Do not give these products to children younger than 4 years of age. If you give these products to children 4 to 11 years of age, use caution and follow the package directions carefully. If you are giving phenylephrine or a combination product that contains phenylephrine to a child, read the package label carefully to be sure that it is the right product for a child of that age. Do not give phenylephrine products that are made for adults to children. Before you give a phenylephrine product to a child, check the package label to find out how much medication the child should receive. Give the dose that matches the child's age on the chart. Ask the child's doctor if you don't know how much medication to give the child. If you are taking the liquid, do not use a household spoon to measure your dose. Use the measuring spoon or cup that came with the medication or use a spoon made especially for measuring medication. If your symptoms do not get better within 7 days or if you have a fever, stop taking phenylephrine and call your doctor. If you are taking the dissolving strips, place one strip on your tongue and allow it to dissolve. Other uses for this medicine This medication may be prescribed for other uses; ask your doctor or pharmacist for more information. What special precautions should I follow? Before taking phenylephrine, tell your doctor and pharmacist if you are allergic to phenylephrine, any other medications, or any of the ingredients in phenylephrine preparations. do not take phenylephrine if you are taking a monoamine oxidase (MAO) inhibitor, such as isocarboxazid (Marplan), phenelzine (Nardil), selegiline (Eldepryl, Emsam, Zelapar), and tranylcypromine (Parnate), or if you have stopped taking one of these medications within the past 2 weeks. tell your doctor and pharmacist what other prescription and nonprescription medications, vitamins, nutritional supplements, and herbal products you are taking or plan to take. tell your doctor if you have or have ever had high blood pressure, diabetes, trouble urinating because of an enlarged prostate gland, or thyroid or heart disease. tell your doctor if you are pregnant, plan to become pregnant, or are breast-feeding. If you become pregnant while taking phenylephrine, call your doctor. if you are having surgery, including dental surgery, tell the doctor or dentist that you are taking phenylephrine. if you have phenylketonuria (PKU, an inherited condition in which a special diet must be followed to prevent damage to your brain that can cause severe intellectual disability), you should know that some phenylephrine products may be sweetened with aspartame, a source of phenylalanine. What special dietary instructions should I follow? Unless your doctor tells you otherwise, continue your normal diet. What should I do if I forget a dose? This medication is usually taken as needed. If your doctor has told you to take phenylephrine regularly, take the missed dose as soon as you remember it. However, if it is almost time for the next dose, skip the missed dose and continue your regular dosing schedule. Do not take a double dose to make up for a missed one. What side effects can this medication cause? Phenylephrine may cause side effects. Some side effects can be serious. If you experience any of these symptoms, stop using phenylephrine and call your doctor: nervousness dizziness sleeplessness Phenylephrine may cause other side effects. Call your doctor if you have any unusual problems while taking this medication. If you experience a serious side effect, you or your doctor may send a report to the Food and Drug Administration's (FDA) MedWatch Adverse Event Reporting program online ( http://www.fda.gov/Safety/MedWatch ) or by phone (1-800-332-1088). What should I know about storage and disposal of this medication? Keep this medication in the container it came in, tightly closed, and out of reach of children. Store it at room temperature and away from excess heat and moisture (not in the bathroom). It is important to keep all medication out of sight and reach of children as many containers (such as weekly pill minders and those for eye drops, creams, patches, and inhalers) are not child-resistant and young children can open them easily. To protect young children from poisoning, always lock safety caps and immediately place the medication in a safe location – one that is up and away and out of their sight and reach. http://www.upandaway.org Unneeded medications should be disposed of in special ways to ensure that pets, children, and other people cannot consume them. However, you should not flush this medication down the toilet. Instead, the best way to dispose of your medication is through a medicine take-back program. Talk to your pharmacist or contact your local garbage/recycling department to learn about take-back programs in your community. See the FDA's Safe Disposal of Medicines website ( http://goo.gl/c4Rm4p ) for more information if you do not have access to a take-back program. In case of emergency/overdose In case of overdose, call the poison control helpline at 1-800-222-1222. Information is also available online at https://www.poisonhelp.org/help . If the victim has collapsed, had a seizure, has trouble breathing, or can't be awakened, immediately call emergency services at 911. What other information should I know? Ask your pharmacist any questions you have about phenylephrine. It is important for you to keep a written list of all of the prescription and nonprescription (over-the-counter) medicines you are taking, as well as any products such as vitamins, minerals, or other dietary supplements. You should bring this list with you each time you visit a doctor or if you are admitted to a hospital. It is also important information to carry with you in case of emergencies. Brand names Children's Sudafed PE Nasal Decongestant ® Lusonal ® § PediaCare Children's Decongestant ® Sudafed PE Congestion ® Suphedrin PE ®

[ Dextromethorphan pronounced as (dex troe meth or' fan) To use the sharing features on this page, please enable JavaScript. Why is this medication prescribed? How should this medicine be used? Other uses for this medicine What special precautions should I follow? What special dietary instructions should I follow? What should I do if I forget a dose? What side effects can this medication cause? What should I know about storage and disposal of this medication? In case of emergency/overdose What other information should I know? Brand names Other names Why is this medication prescribed? Dextromethorphan is used to temporarily relieve cough caused by the common cold, the flu, or other conditions. Dextromethorphan will relieve a cough but will not treat the cause of the cough or speed recovery. Dextromethorphan is in a class of medications called antitussives. It works by decreasing activity in the part of the brain that causes coughing. How should this medicine be used? Dextromethorphan comes as a liquid-filled capsule, a chewable tablet, a dissolving strip, a solution (liquid), an extended-release (long-acting) suspension (liquid), and a lozenge to take by mouth. It is usually taken every 4 to 12 hours as needed. Follow the directions on the package or prescription label carefully, and ask your doctor or pharmacist to explain any part you do not understand. Dextromethorphan should only be used according to the label or package directions. Do not take more than the recommended amount of dextromethorphan in a 24-hour period. Refer to the package or prescription label to determine the amount contained in each dose. Taking dextromethorphan in large amounts can cause serious side effects or death. Dextromethorphan comes alone and in combination with antihistamines, cough suppressants, and decongestants. Ask your doctor or pharmacist for advice on which product is best for your symptoms. Check nonprescription cough and cold product labels carefully before using 2 or more products at the same time. These products may contain the same active ingredient(s) and taking them together could cause you to receive an overdose. This is especially important if you will be giving cough and cold medications to a child. Nonprescription cough and cold combination products, including products that contain dextromethorphan, can cause serious side effects or death in young children. Do not give these products to children younger than 4 years of age. If you give these products to children 4-11 years of age, use caution and follow the package directions carefully. If you are giving dextromethorphan or a combination product that contains dextromethorphan to a child, read the package label carefully to be sure that it is the right product for a child of that age. Do not give dextromethorphan products that are made for adults to children. Before you give a dextromethorphan product to a child, check the package label to find out how much medication the child should receive. Give the dose that matches the child's age on the chart. Ask the child's doctor if you don't know how much medication to give the child. If you are taking the liquid, do not use a household spoon to measure your dose. Use the measuring spoon or cup that came with the medication or use a spoon made especially for measuring medication. If you are using the dissolving strips, place them on your tongue and swallow after they melt. If you are taking the chewable tablets you can allow them to melt in your mouth or you can chew them before swallowing. If you are taking the extended-release suspension, shake the bottle well before each use to mix the medication evenly. If you are taking the lozenges, allow them to slowly melt in your mouth. Stop taking dextromethorphan and call your doctor if your cough does not get better within 7 days, if your cough goes away and comes back, or if your cough occurs with a fever, rash, or headache. Other uses for this medicine This medication is sometimes prescribed for other uses; ask your doctor or pharmacist for more information. What special precautions should I follow? Before taking dextromethorphan, tell your doctor and pharmacist if you are allergic to dextromethorphan, any other medications, or any of the ingredients in the product you plan to take. Check the package label for a list of the ingredients. do not take dextromethorphan if you are taking a monoamine oxidase (MAO) inhibitor such as isocarboxazid (Marplan), phenelzine (Nardil), selegiline (Eldepryl, Emsam, Zelapar), and tranylcypromine (Parnate), or if you have stopped taking an MAO inhibitor within the past 2 weeks. tell your doctor and pharmacist what prescription and nonprescription medications, vitamins, nutritional supplements, and herbal products you are taking or plan to take. tell your doctor if you smoke, if you have a cough that occurs with a large amount of phlegm (mucus), or if you have or have ever had breathing problems such as asthma, emphysema, or chronic bronchitis. tell your doctor if you are pregnant, plan to become pregnant, or are breast-feeding. If you become pregnant while taking dextromethorphan, call your doctor. if you have phenylketonuria (PKU, an inherited condition in which a special diet must be followed to prevent damage to your brain that can cause severe intellectual disability), you should know that some brands of chewable tablets that contain dextromethorphan may be sweetened with aspartame, a source of phenylalanine. What special dietary instructions should I follow? Unless your doctor tells you otherwise, continue your normal diet. What should I do if I forget a dose? Dextromethorphan is usually taken as needed. If your doctor has told you to take dextromethorphan regularly, take the missed dose as soon as you remember it. However, if it is almost time for the next dose, skip the missed dose and continue your regular dosing schedule. Do not take a double dose to make up for a missed one. What side effects can this medication cause? Dextromethorphan may cause side effects. Tell your doctor if any of these symptoms are severe or do not go away: dizziness lightheadedness drowsiness nervousness restlessness nausea vomiting stomach pain If you experience any of the following symptoms, call your doctor immediately: rash Dextromethorphan may cause other side effects. Call your doctor if you experience any unusual problems while you are taking this medication. If you experience a serious side effect, you or your doctor may send a report to the Food and Drug Administration's (FDA) MedWatch Adverse Event Reporting program online ( http://www.fda.gov/Safety/MedWatch ) or by phone (1-800-332-1088). What should I know about storage and disposal of this medication? Keep this medication in the container it came in, tightly closed, and out of reach of children. Store it at room temperature and away from excess heat and moisture (not in the bathroom). Unneeded medications should be disposed of in special ways to ensure that pets, children, and other people cannot consume them. However, you should not flush this medication down the toilet. Instead, the best way to dispose of your medication is through a medicine take-back program. Talk to your pharmacist or contact your local garbage/recycling department to learn about take-back programs in your community. See the FDA's Safe Disposal of Medicines website ( http://goo.gl/c4Rm4p ) for more information if you do not have access to a take-back program. It is important to keep all medication out of sight and reach of children as many containers (such as weekly pill minders and those for eye drops, creams, patches, and inhalers) are not child-resistant and young children can open them easily. To protect young children from poisoning, always lock safety caps and immediately place the medication in a safe location – one that is up and away and out of their sight and reach. http://www.upandaway.org In case of emergency/overdose In case of overdose, call the poison control helpline at 1-800-222-1222. Information is also available online at https://www.poisonhelp.org/help . If the victim has collapsed, had a seizure, has trouble breathing, or can't be awakened, immediately call emergency services at 911. Symptoms of overdose may include: nausea vomiting drowsiness dizziness unsteadiness changes in vision difficulty breathing fast heartbeat hallucinating (seeing things or hearing voices that do not exist) seizures coma (loss of consciousness for a period of time) What other information should I know? Ask your pharmacist any questions you have about dextromethorphan. It is important for you to keep a written list of all of the prescription and nonprescription (over-the-counter) medicines you are taking, as well as any products such as vitamins, minerals, or other dietary supplements. You should bring this list with you each time you visit a doctor or if you are admitted to a hospital. It is also important information to carry with you in case of emergencies. Brand names Delsym 12-hour Cough Robitussin Cough Long-Acting ® Triaminic Long-Acting Cough ® Vicks DayQuil Cough ®

[ Chlorpheniramine pronounced as (klor fen ir' a meen)  Chlorpheniramine relieves red, itchy, watery eyes; sneezing; itchy nose or throat; and runny nose caused by allergies, hay fever, and the common cold. Chlorpheniramine helps control the symptoms of cold or allergies but will not treat the cause of the symptoms or speed recovery. Chlorpheniramine is in a class of medications called antihistamines. It works by blocking the action of histamine, a substance in the body that causes allergic symptoms. How should this medicine be used? Chlorpheniramine comes as a tablet, a capsule, an extended-release (long-acting) tablet and capsule, a chewable tablet, and a liquid to take by mouth. The regular capsules and tablets, chewable tablets, and liquid are usually taken every 4 to 6 hours as needed. The extended-release (long-acting) tablets and capsules are usually taken twice a day in the morning and evening as needed. Follow the directions on your prescription label carefully, and ask your doctor or pharmacist to explain any part you do not understand. Take chlorpheniramine exactly as directed. Do not take more or less of it or take it more often than prescribed by your doctor. Chlorpheniramine comes alone and in combination with fever and pain reducers, expectorants, cough suppressants, and decongestants. Ask your doctor or pharmacist for advice on which product is best for your symptoms. Check nonprescription cough and cold product labels carefully before using 2 or more products at the same time. These products may contain the same active ingredient(s) and taking them together could cause you to receive an overdose.This is especially important if you will be giving cough and cold medications to a child. Nonprescription cough and cold combination products, including products that contain chlorpheniramine, can cause serious side effects or death in young children. Do not give these products to children younger than 4 years of age. If you give these products to children 4-11 years of age, use caution and follow the package directions carefully. If you are giving chlorpheniramine or a combination product that contains chlorpheniramine to a child, read the package label carefully to be sure that it is the right product for a child of that age. Do not give chlorpheniramine products that are made for adults to children. Before you give a chlorpheniramine product to a child, check the package label to find out how much medication the child should receive. Give the dose that matches the child's age on the chart. Ask the child's doctor if you don't know how much medication to give the child. If you are taking the liquid, do not use a household spoon to measure your dose. Use the measuring spoon or cup that came with the medication or use a spoon made especially for measuring medication. If you are using the extended-release tablets or capsules, swallow them whole. Do not break, crush, chew, or open them. Other uses for this medicine This medication is sometimes prescribed for other uses; ask your doctor or pharmacist for more information. What special precautions should I follow? Before taking chlorpheniramine, tell your doctor and pharmacist if you are allergic to chlorpheniramine, any other medications, or any of the ingredients in the chlorpheniramine product you plan to use. Check the package label for a list of the ingredients. tell your doctor and pharmacist what prescription and nonprescription medications, vitamins, nutritional supplements, and herbal products you are taking or plan to take. Be sure to mention any of the following: other medications for colds, hay fever, or allergies; medications for anxiety, depression, or seizures; muscle relaxants; narcotic medications for pain; sedatives; sleeping pills; and tranquilizers. tell your doctor if you have or have ever had asthma, emphysema, chronic bronchitis, or other types of lung disease; glaucoma (a condition in which increased pressure in the eye can lead to gradual loss of vision); ulcers; diabetes; difficulty urinating (due to an enlarged prostate gland); heart disease; high blood pressure; seizures; or an overactive thyroid gland. tell your doctor if you are pregnant, plan to become pregnant, or are breast-feeding. If you become pregnant while taking chlorpheniramine, call your doctor. if you are having surgery, including dental surgery, tell the doctor or dentist that you are taking chlorpheniramine. you should know that this medication may make you drowsy. Do not drive a car or operate machinery until you know how this medication affects you. ask your doctor about the safe use of alcohol while you are taking chlorpheniramine. Alcohol can make the side effects of chlorpheniramine worse. talk to your doctor about the risks and benefits of taking chlorpheniramine if you are 65 years of age or older. Older adults should not usually take chlorpheniramine because it is not as safe or effective as other medications that can be used to treat the same condition. What special dietary instructions should I follow? Unless your doctor tells you otherwise, continue your normal diet. What should I do if I forget a dose? Chlorpheniramine is usually taken as needed. If your doctor has told you to take chlorpheniramine regularly, take the missed dose as soon as you remember it. However, if it is almost time for the next dose, skip the missed dose and continue your regular dosing schedule. Do not take a double dose to make up for a missed one. What side effects can this medication cause? Chlorpheniramine may cause side effects. Tell your doctor if any of these symptoms are severe or do not go away: drowsiness dry mouth, nose, and throat nausea vomiting loss of appetite constipation headache increased chest congestion Some side effects can be serious. If you experience any of the following symptoms, call your doctor immediately: vision problems difficulty urinating If you experience a serious side effect, you or your doctor may send a report to the Food and Drug Administration's (FDA) MedWatch Adverse Event Reporting program online ( http://www.fda.gov/Safety/MedWatch ) or by phone (1-800-332-1088). What should I know about storage and disposal of this medication? Keep this medication in the container it came in, tightly closed, and out of reach of children. Store it at room temperature and away from excess heat and moisture (not in the bathroom). It is important to keep all medication out of sight and reach of children as many containers (such as weekly pill minders and those for eye drops, creams, patches, and inhalers) are not child-resistant and young children can open them easily. To protect young children from poisoning, always lock safety caps and immediately place the medication in a safe location – one that is up and away and out of their sight and reach. http://www.upandaway.org Unneeded medications should be disposed of in special ways to ensure that pets, children, and other people cannot consume them. However, you should not flush this medication down the toilet. Instead, the best way to dispose of your medication is through a medicine take-back program. Talk to your pharmacist or contact your local garbage/recycling department to learn about take-back programs in your community. See the FDA's Safe Disposal of Medicines website ( http://goo.gl/c4Rm4p ) for more information if you do not have access to a take-back program. In case of emergency/overdose In case of overdose, call the poison control helpline at 1-800-222-1222. Information is also available online at https://www.poisonhelp.org/help . If the victim has collapsed, had a seizure, has trouble breathing, or can't be awakened, immediately call emergency services at 911. What other information should I know? Ask your pharmacist any questions you have about chlorpheniramine. It is important for you to keep a written list of all of the prescription and nonprescription (over-the-counter) medicines you are taking, as well as any products such as vitamins, minerals, or other dietary supplements. You should bring this list with you each time you visit a doctor or if you are admitted to a hospital. It is also important information to carry with you in case of emergencies. Brand names Aller-Chlor ® Aller-Chlor ® Syrup Chlo-Amine ® Chlor-Trimeton ® 12 Hour Allergy Chlor-Trimeton ® 4 Hour Allergy Chlor-Trimeton ® 8 Hour Allergy Chlor-Trimeton ® Allergy Syrup Polaramine ® Polaramine ® Repetabs ® Polaramine ® Syrup Teldrin ® Allergy

[ Phenylephrine pronounced as (fen il ef' rin)  Phenylephrine is used to relieve nasal discomfort caused by colds, allergies, and hay fever. It is also used to relieve sinus congestion and pressure. Phenylephrine will relieve symptoms but will not treat the cause of the symptoms or speed recovery. Phenylephrine is in a class of medications called nasal decongestants. It works by reducing swelling of the blood vessels in the nasal passages. How should this medicine be used? Phenylephrine comes as a tablet, a liquid, or a dissolving strip to take by mouth. It is usually taken every 4 hours as needed. Follow the directions on your prescription label or the package label carefully, and ask your doctor or pharmacist to explain any part you do not understand. Take phenylephrine exactly as directed. Do not take more or less of it or take it more often than prescribed by your doctor or directed on the label. Phenylephrine comes alone and in combination with other medications. Ask your doctor or pharmacist for advice on which product is best for your symptoms. Check nonprescription cough and cold product labels carefully before using two or more products at the same time. These products may contain the same active ingredient(s) and taking them together could cause you to receive an overdose. This is especially important if you will be giving cough and cold medications to a child. Nonprescription cough and cold combination products, including products that contain phenylephrine, can cause serious side effects or death in young children. Do not give these products to children younger than 4 years of age. If you give these products to children 4 to 11 years of age, use caution and follow the package directions carefully. If you are giving phenylephrine or a combination product that contains phenylephrine to a child, read the package label carefully to be sure that it is the right product for a child of that age. Do not give phenylephrine products that are made for adults to children. Before you give a phenylephrine product to a child, check the package label to find out how much medication the child should receive. Give the dose that matches the child's age on the chart. Ask the child's doctor if you don't know how much medication to give the child. If you are taking the liquid, do not use a household spoon to measure your dose. Use the measuring spoon or cup that came with the medication or use a spoon made especially for measuring medication. If your symptoms do not get better within 7 days or if you have a fever, stop taking phenylephrine and call your doctor. If you are taking the dissolving strips, place one strip on your tongue and allow it to dissolve. Other uses for this medicine This medication may be prescribed for other uses; ask your doctor or pharmacist for more information. What special precautions should I follow? Before taking phenylephrine, tell your doctor and pharmacist if you are allergic to phenylephrine, any other medications, or any of the ingredients in phenylephrine preparations. do not take phenylephrine if you are taking a monoamine oxidase (MAO) inhibitor, such as isocarboxazid (Marplan), phenelzine (Nardil), selegiline (Eldepryl, Emsam, Zelapar), and tranylcypromine (Parnate), or if you have stopped taking one of these medications within the past 2 weeks. tell your doctor and pharmacist what other prescription and nonprescription medications, vitamins, nutritional supplements, and herbal products you are taking or plan to take. tell your doctor if you have or have ever had high blood pressure, diabetes, trouble urinating because of an enlarged prostate gland, or thyroid or heart disease. tell your doctor if you are pregnant, plan to become pregnant, or are breast-feeding. If you become pregnant while taking phenylephrine, call your doctor. if you are having surgery, including dental surgery, tell the doctor or dentist that you are taking phenylephrine. if you have phenylketonuria (PKU, an inherited condition in which a special diet must be followed to prevent damage to your brain that can cause severe intellectual disability), you should know that some phenylephrine products may be sweetened with aspartame, a source of phenylalanine. What special dietary instructions should I follow? Unless your doctor tells you otherwise, continue your normal diet. What should I do if I forget a dose? This medication is usually taken as needed. If your doctor has told you to take phenylephrine regularly, take the missed dose as soon as you remember it. However, if it is almost time for the next dose, skip the missed dose and continue your regular dosing schedule. Do not take a double dose to make up for a missed one. What side effects can this medication cause? Phenylephrine may cause side effects. Some side effects can be serious. If you experience any of these symptoms, stop using phenylephrine and call your doctor: nervousness dizziness sleeplessness Phenylephrine may cause other side effects. Call your doctor if you have any unusual problems while taking this medication. If you experience a serious side effect, you or your doctor may send a report to the Food and Drug Administration's (FDA) MedWatch Adverse Event Reporting program online ( http://www.fda.gov/Safety/MedWatch ) or by phone (1-800-332-1088). What should I know about storage and disposal of this medication? Keep this medication in the container it came in, tightly closed, and out of reach of children. Store it at room temperature and away from excess heat and moisture (not in the bathroom). It is important to keep all medication out of sight and reach of children as many containers (such as weekly pill minders and those for eye drops, creams, patches, and inhalers) are not child-resistant and young children can open them easily. To protect young children from poisoning, always lock safety caps and immediately place the medication in a safe location – one that is up and away and out of their sight and reach. http://www.upandaway.org Unneeded medications should be disposed of in special ways to ensure that pets, children, and other people cannot consume them. However, you should not flush this medication down the toilet. Instead, the best way to dispose of your medication is through a medicine take-back program. Talk to your pharmacist or contact your local garbage/recycling department to learn about take-back programs in your community. See the FDA's Safe Disposal of Medicines website ( http://goo.gl/c4Rm4p ) for more information if you do not have access to a take-back program. In case of emergency/overdose In case of overdose, call the poison control helpline at 1-800-222-1222. Information is also available online at https://www.poisonhelp.org/help . If the victim has collapsed, had a seizure, has trouble breathing, or can't be awakened, immediately call emergency services at 911. What other information should I know? Ask your pharmacist any questions you have about phenylephrine. It is important for you to keep a written list of all of the prescription and nonprescription (over-the-counter) medicines you are taking, as well as any products such as vitamins, minerals, or other dietary supplements. You should bring this list with you each time you visit a doctor or if you are admitted to a hospital. It is also important information to carry with you in case of emergencies. Brand names Children's Sudafed PE Nasal Decongestant ® Lusonal ® § PediaCare Children's Decongestant ® Sudafed PE Congestion ® Suphedrin PE ®

[ Dextromethorphan pronounced as (dex troe meth or' fan) To use the sharing features on this page, please enable JavaScript. Why is this medication prescribed? How should this medicine be used? Other uses for this medicine What special precautions should I follow? What special dietary instructions should I follow? What should I do if I forget a dose? What side effects can this medication cause? What should I know about storage and disposal of this medication? In case of emergency/overdose What other information should I know? Brand names Other names Why is this medication prescribed? Dextromethorphan is used to temporarily relieve cough caused by the common cold, the flu, or other conditions. Dextromethorphan will relieve a cough but will not treat the cause of the cough or speed recovery. Dextromethorphan is in a class of medications called antitussives. It works by decreasing activity in the part of the brain that causes coughing. How should this medicine be used? Dextromethorphan comes as a liquid-filled capsule, a chewable tablet, a dissolving strip, a solution (liquid), an extended-release (long-acting) suspension (liquid), and a lozenge to take by mouth. It is usually taken every 4 to 12 hours as needed. Follow the directions on the package or prescription label carefully, and ask your doctor or pharmacist to explain any part you do not understand. Dextromethorphan should only be used according to the label or package directions. Do not take more than the recommended amount of dextromethorphan in a 24-hour period. Refer to the package or prescription label to determine the amount contained in each dose. Taking dextromethorphan in large amounts can cause serious side effects or death. Dextromethorphan comes alone and in combination with antihistamines, cough suppressants, and decongestants. Ask your doctor or pharmacist for advice on which product is best for your symptoms. Check nonprescription cough and cold product labels carefully before using 2 or more products at the same time. These products may contain the same active ingredient(s) and taking them together could cause you to receive an overdose. This is especially important if you will be giving cough and cold medications to a child. Nonprescription cough and cold combination products, including products that contain dextromethorphan, can cause serious side effects or death in young children. Do not give these products to children younger than 4 years of age. If you give these products to children 4-11 years of age, use caution and follow the package directions carefully. If you are giving dextromethorphan or a combination product that contains dextromethorphan to a child, read the package label carefully to be sure that it is the right product for a child of that age. Do not give dextromethorphan products that are made for adults to children. Before you give a dextromethorphan product to a child, check the package label to find out how much medication the child should receive. Give the dose that matches the child's age on the chart. Ask the child's doctor if you don't know how much medication to give the child. If you are taking the liquid, do not use a household spoon to measure your dose. Use the measuring spoon or cup that came with the medication or use a spoon made especially for measuring medication. If you are using the dissolving strips, place them on your tongue and swallow after they melt. If you are taking the chewable tablets you can allow them to melt in your mouth or you can chew them before swallowing. If you are taking the extended-release suspension, shake the bottle well before each use to mix the medication evenly. If you are taking the lozenges, allow them to slowly melt in your mouth. Stop taking dextromethorphan and call your doctor if your cough does not get better within 7 days, if your cough goes away and comes back, or if your cough occurs with a fever, rash, or headache. Other uses for this medicine This medication is sometimes prescribed for other uses; ask your doctor or pharmacist for more information. What special precautions should I follow? Before taking dextromethorphan, tell your doctor and pharmacist if you are allergic to dextromethorphan, any other medications, or any of the ingredients in the product you plan to take. Check the package label for a list of the ingredients. do not take dextromethorphan if you are taking a monoamine oxidase (MAO) inhibitor such as isocarboxazid (Marplan), phenelzine (Nardil), selegiline (Eldepryl, Emsam, Zelapar), and tranylcypromine (Parnate), or if you have stopped taking an MAO inhibitor within the past 2 weeks. tell your doctor and pharmacist what prescription and nonprescription medications, vitamins, nutritional supplements, and herbal products you are taking or plan to take. tell your doctor if you smoke, if you have a cough that occurs with a large amount of phlegm (mucus), or if you have or have ever had breathing problems such as asthma, emphysema, or chronic bronchitis. tell your doctor if you are pregnant, plan to become pregnant, or are breast-feeding. If you become pregnant while taking dextromethorphan, call your doctor. if you have phenylketonuria (PKU, an inherited condition in which a special diet must be followed to prevent damage to your brain that can cause severe intellectual disability), you should know that some brands of chewable tablets that contain dextromethorphan may be sweetened with aspartame, a source of phenylalanine. What special dietary instructions should I follow? Unless your doctor tells you otherwise, continue your normal diet. What should I do if I forget a dose? Dextromethorphan is usually taken as needed. If your doctor has told you to take dextromethorphan regularly, take the missed dose as soon as you remember it. However, if it is almost time for the next dose, skip the missed dose and continue your regular dosing schedule. Do not take a double dose to make up for a missed one. What side effects can this medication cause? Dextromethorphan may cause side effects. Tell your doctor if any of these symptoms are severe or do not go away: dizziness lightheadedness drowsiness nervousness restlessness nausea vomiting stomach pain If you experience any of the following symptoms, call your doctor immediately: rash Dextromethorphan may cause other side effects. Call your doctor if you experience any unusual problems while you are taking this medication. If you experience a serious side effect, you or your doctor may send a report to the Food and Drug Administration's (FDA) MedWatch Adverse Event Reporting program online ( http://www.fda.gov/Safety/MedWatch ) or by phone (1-800-332-1088). What should I know about storage and disposal of this medication? Keep this medication in the container it came in, tightly closed, and out of reach of children. Store it at room temperature and away from excess heat and moisture (not in the bathroom). Unneeded medications should be disposed of in special ways to ensure that pets, children, and other people cannot consume them. However, you should not flush this medication down the toilet. Instead, the best way to dispose of your medication is through a medicine take-back program. Talk to your pharmacist or contact your local garbage/recycling department to learn about take-back programs in your community. See the FDA's Safe Disposal of Medicines website ( http://goo.gl/c4Rm4p ) for more information if you do not have access to a take-back program. It is important to keep all medication out of sight and reach of children as many containers (such as weekly pill minders and those for eye drops, creams, patches, and inhalers) are not child-resistant and young children can open them easily. To protect young children from poisoning, always lock safety caps and immediately place the medication in a safe location – one that is up and away and out of their sight and reach. http://www.upandaway.org In case of emergency/overdose In case of overdose, call the poison control helpline at 1-800-222-1222. Information is also available online at https://www.poisonhelp.org/help . If the victim has collapsed, had a seizure, has trouble breathing, or can't be awakened, immediately call emergency services at 911. Symptoms of overdose may include: nausea vomiting drowsiness dizziness unsteadiness changes in vision difficulty breathing fast heartbeat hallucinating (seeing things or hearing voices that do not exist) seizures coma (loss of consciousness for a period of time) What other information should I know? Ask your pharmacist any questions you have about dextromethorphan. It is important for you to keep a written list of all of the prescription and nonprescription (over-the-counter) medicines you are taking, as well as any products such as vitamins, minerals, or other dietary supplements. You should bring this list with you each time you visit a doctor or if you are admitted to a hospital. It is also important information to carry with you in case of emergencies. Brand names Delsym 12-hour Cough Robitussin Cough Long-Acting ® Triaminic Long-Acting Cough ® Vicks DayQuil Cough ®

[ Phenylephrine pronounced as (fen il ef' rin)  Phenylephrine is used to relieve nasal discomfort caused by colds, allergies, and hay fever. It is also used to relieve sinus congestion and pressure. Phenylephrine will relieve symptoms but will not treat the cause of the symptoms or speed recovery. Phenylephrine is in a class of medications called nasal decongestants. It works by reducing swelling of the blood vessels in the nasal passages. How should this medicine be used? Phenylephrine comes as a tablet, a liquid, or a dissolving strip to take by mouth. It is usually taken every 4 hours as needed. Follow the directions on your prescription label or the package label carefully, and ask your doctor or pharmacist to explain any part you do not understand. Take phenylephrine exactly as directed. Do not take more or less of it or take it more often than prescribed by your doctor or directed on the label. Phenylephrine comes alone and in combination with other medications. Ask your doctor or pharmacist for advice on which product is best for your symptoms. Check nonprescription cough and cold product labels carefully before using two or more products at the same time. These products may contain the same active ingredient(s) and taking them together could cause you to receive an overdose. This is especially important if you will be giving cough and cold medications to a child. Nonprescription cough and cold combination products, including products that contain phenylephrine, can cause serious side effects or death in young children. Do not give these products to children younger than 4 years of age. If you give these products to children 4 to 11 years of age, use caution and follow the package directions carefully. If you are giving phenylephrine or a combination product that contains phenylephrine to a child, read the package label carefully to be sure that it is the right product for a child of that age. Do not give phenylephrine products that are made for adults to children. Before you give a phenylephrine product to a child, check the package label to find out how much medication the child should receive. Give the dose that matches the child's age on the chart. Ask the child's doctor if you don't know how much medication to give the child. If you are taking the liquid, do not use a household spoon to measure your dose. Use the measuring spoon or cup that came with the medication or use a spoon made especially for measuring medication. If your symptoms do not get better within 7 days or if you have a fever, stop taking phenylephrine and call your doctor. If you are taking the dissolving strips, place one strip on your tongue and allow it to dissolve. Other uses for this medicine This medication may be prescribed for other uses; ask your doctor or pharmacist for more information. What special precautions should I follow? Before taking phenylephrine, tell your doctor and pharmacist if you are allergic to phenylephrine, any other medications, or any of the ingredients in phenylephrine preparations. do not take phenylephrine if you are taking a monoamine oxidase (MAO) inhibitor, such as isocarboxazid (Marplan), phenelzine (Nardil), selegiline (Eldepryl, Emsam, Zelapar), and tranylcypromine (Parnate), or if you have stopped taking one of these medications within the past 2 weeks. tell your doctor and pharmacist what other prescription and nonprescription medications, vitamins, nutritional supplements, and herbal products you are taking or plan to take. tell your doctor if you have or have ever had high blood pressure, diabetes, trouble urinating because of an enlarged prostate gland, or thyroid or heart disease. tell your doctor if you are pregnant, plan to become pregnant, or are breast-feeding. If you become pregnant while taking phenylephrine, call your doctor. if you are having surgery, including dental surgery, tell the doctor or dentist that you are taking phenylephrine. if you have phenylketonuria (PKU, an inherited condition in which a special diet must be followed to prevent damage to your brain that can cause severe intellectual disability), you should know that some phenylephrine products may be sweetened with aspartame, a source of phenylalanine. What special dietary instructions should I follow? Unless your doctor tells you otherwise, continue your normal diet. What should I do if I forget a dose? This medication is usually taken as needed. If your doctor has told you to take phenylephrine regularly, take the missed dose as soon as you remember it. However, if it is almost time for the next dose, skip the missed dose and continue your regular dosing schedule. Do not take a double dose to make up for a missed one. What side effects can this medication cause? Phenylephrine may cause side effects. Some side effects can be serious. If you experience any of these symptoms, stop using phenylephrine and call your doctor: nervousness dizziness sleeplessness Phenylephrine may cause other side effects. Call your doctor if you have any unusual problems while taking this medication. If you experience a serious side effect, you or your doctor may send a report to the Food and Drug Administration's (FDA) MedWatch Adverse Event Reporting program online ( http://www.fda.gov/Safety/MedWatch ) or by phone (1-800-332-1088). What should I know about storage and disposal of this medication? Keep this medication in the container it came in, tightly closed, and out of reach of children. Store it at room temperature and away from excess heat and moisture (not in the bathroom). It is important to keep all medication out of sight and reach of children as many containers (such as weekly pill minders and those for eye drops, creams, patches, and inhalers) are not child-resistant and young children can open them easily. To protect young children from poisoning, always lock safety caps and immediately place the medication in a safe location – one that is up and away and out of their sight and reach. http://www.upandaway.org Unneeded medications should be disposed of in special ways to ensure that pets, children, and other people cannot consume them. However, you should not flush this medication down the toilet. Instead, the best way to dispose of your medication is through a medicine take-back program. Talk to your pharmacist or contact your local garbage/recycling department to learn about take-back programs in your community. See the FDA's Safe Disposal of Medicines website ( http://goo.gl/c4Rm4p ) for more information if you do not have access to a take-back program. In case of emergency/overdose In case of overdose, call the poison control helpline at 1-800-222-1222. Information is also available online at https://www.poisonhelp.org/help . If the victim has collapsed, had a seizure, has trouble breathing, or can't be awakened, immediately call emergency services at 911. What other information should I know? Ask your pharmacist any questions you have about phenylephrine. It is important for you to keep a written list of all of the prescription and nonprescription (over-the-counter) medicines you are taking, as well as any products such as vitamins, minerals, or other dietary supplements. You should bring this list with you each time you visit a doctor or if you are admitted to a hospital. It is also important information to carry with you in case of emergencies. Brand names Children's Sudafed PE Nasal Decongestant ® Lusonal ® § PediaCare Children's Decongestant ® Sudafed PE Congestion ® Suphedrin PE ®

[ Dextromethorphan pronounced as (dex troe meth or' fan) To use the sharing features on this page, please enable JavaScript. Why is this medication prescribed? How should this medicine be used? Other uses for this medicine What special precautions should I follow? What special dietary instructions should I follow? What should I do if I forget a dose? What side effects can this medication cause? What should I know about storage and disposal of this medication? In case of emergency/overdose What other information should I know? Brand names Other names Why is this medication prescribed? Dextromethorphan is used to temporarily relieve cough caused by the common cold, the flu, or other conditions. Dextromethorphan will relieve a cough but will not treat the cause of the cough or speed recovery. Dextromethorphan is in a class of medications called antitussives. It works by decreasing activity in the part of the brain that causes coughing. How should this medicine be used? Dextromethorphan comes as a liquid-filled capsule, a chewable tablet, a dissolving strip, a solution (liquid), an extended-release (long-acting) suspension (liquid), and a lozenge to take by mouth. It is usually taken every 4 to 12 hours as needed. Follow the directions on the package or prescription label carefully, and ask your doctor or pharmacist to explain any part you do not understand. Dextromethorphan should only be used according to the label or package directions. Do not take more than the recommended amount of dextromethorphan in a 24-hour period. Refer to the package or prescription label to determine the amount contained in each dose. Taking dextromethorphan in large amounts can cause serious side effects or death. Dextromethorphan comes alone and in combination with antihistamines, cough suppressants, and decongestants. Ask your doctor or pharmacist for advice on which product is best for your symptoms. Check nonprescription cough and cold product labels carefully before using 2 or more products at the same time. These products may contain the same active ingredient(s) and taking them together could cause you to receive an overdose. This is especially important if you will be giving cough and cold medications to a child. Nonprescription cough and cold combination products, including products that contain dextromethorphan, can cause serious side effects or death in young children. Do not give these products to children younger than 4 years of age. If you give these products to children 4-11 years of age, use caution and follow the package directions carefully. If you are giving dextromethorphan or a combination product that contains dextromethorphan to a child, read the package label carefully to be sure that it is the right product for a child of that age. Do not give dextromethorphan products that are made for adults to children. Before you give a dextromethorphan product to a child, check the package label to find out how much medication the child should receive. Give the dose that matches the child's age on the chart. Ask the child's doctor if you don't know how much medication to give the child. If you are taking the liquid, do not use a household spoon to measure your dose. Use the measuring spoon or cup that came with the medication or use a spoon made especially for measuring medication. If you are using the dissolving strips, place them on your tongue and swallow after they melt. If you are taking the chewable tablets you can allow them to melt in your mouth or you can chew them before swallowing. If you are taking the extended-release suspension, shake the bottle well before each use to mix the medication evenly. If you are taking the lozenges, allow them to slowly melt in your mouth. Stop taking dextromethorphan and call your doctor if your cough does not get better within 7 days, if your cough goes away and comes back, or if your cough occurs with a fever, rash, or headache. Other uses for this medicine This medication is sometimes prescribed for other uses; ask your doctor or pharmacist for more information. What special precautions should I follow? Before taking dextromethorphan, tell your doctor and pharmacist if you are allergic to dextromethorphan, any other medications, or any of the ingredients in the product you plan to take. Check the package label for a list of the ingredients. do not take dextromethorphan if you are taking a monoamine oxidase (MAO) inhibitor such as isocarboxazid (Marplan), phenelzine (Nardil), selegiline (Eldepryl, Emsam, Zelapar), and tranylcypromine (Parnate), or if you have stopped taking an MAO inhibitor within the past 2 weeks. tell your doctor and pharmacist what prescription and nonprescription medications, vitamins, nutritional supplements, and herbal products you are taking or plan to take. tell your doctor if you smoke, if you have a cough that occurs with a large amount of phlegm (mucus), or if you have or have ever had breathing problems such as asthma, emphysema, or chronic bronchitis. tell your doctor if you are pregnant, plan to become pregnant, or are breast-feeding. If you become pregnant while taking dextromethorphan, call your doctor. if you have phenylketonuria (PKU, an inherited condition in which a special diet must be followed to prevent damage to your brain that can cause severe intellectual disability), you should know that some brands of chewable tablets that contain dextromethorphan may be sweetened with aspartame, a source of phenylalanine. What special dietary instructions should I follow? Unless your doctor tells you otherwise, continue your normal diet. What should I do if I forget a dose? Dextromethorphan is usually taken as needed. If your doctor has told you to take dextromethorphan regularly, take the missed dose as soon as you remember it. However, if it is almost time for the next dose, skip the missed dose and continue your regular dosing schedule. Do not take a double dose to make up for a missed one. What side effects can this medication cause? Dextromethorphan may cause side effects. Tell your doctor if any of these symptoms are severe or do not go away: dizziness lightheadedness drowsiness nervousness restlessness nausea vomiting stomach pain If you experience any of the following symptoms, call your doctor immediately: rash Dextromethorphan may cause other side effects. Call your doctor if you experience any unusual problems while you are taking this medication. If you experience a serious side effect, you or your doctor may send a report to the Food and Drug Administration's (FDA) MedWatch Adverse Event Reporting program online ( http://www.fda.gov/Safety/MedWatch ) or by phone (1-800-332-1088). What should I know about storage and disposal of this medication? Keep this medication in the container it came in, tightly closed, and out of reach of children. Store it at room temperature and away from excess heat and moisture (not in the bathroom). Unneeded medications should be disposed of in special ways to ensure that pets, children, and other people cannot consume them. However, you should not flush this medication down the toilet. Instead, the best way to dispose of your medication is through a medicine take-back program. Talk to your pharmacist or contact your local garbage/recycling department to learn about take-back programs in your community. See the FDA's Safe Disposal of Medicines website ( http://goo.gl/c4Rm4p ) for more information if you do not have access to a take-back program. It is important to keep all medication out of sight and reach of children as many containers (such as weekly pill minders and those for eye drops, creams, patches, and inhalers) are not child-resistant and young children can open them easily. To protect young children from poisoning, always lock safety caps and immediately place the medication in a safe location – one that is up and away and out of their sight and reach. http://www.upandaway.org In case of emergency/overdose In case of overdose, call the poison control helpline at 1-800-222-1222. Information is also available online at https://www.poisonhelp.org/help . If the victim has collapsed, had a seizure, has trouble breathing, or can't be awakened, immediately call emergency services at 911. Symptoms of overdose may include: nausea vomiting drowsiness dizziness unsteadiness changes in vision difficulty breathing fast heartbeat hallucinating (seeing things or hearing voices that do not exist) seizures coma (loss of consciousness for a period of time) What other information should I know? Ask your pharmacist any questions you have about dextromethorphan. It is important for you to keep a written list of all of the prescription and nonprescription (over-the-counter) medicines you are taking, as well as any products such as vitamins, minerals, or other dietary supplements. You should bring this list with you each time you visit a doctor or if you are admitted to a hospital. It is also important information to carry with you in case of emergencies. Brand names Delsym 12-hour Cough Robitussin Cough Long-Acting ® Triaminic Long-Acting Cough ® Vicks DayQuil Cough ®

[ Phenylephrine pronounced as (fen il ef' rin)  Phenylephrine is used to relieve nasal discomfort caused by colds, allergies, and hay fever. It is also used to relieve sinus congestion and pressure. Phenylephrine will relieve symptoms but will not treat the cause of the symptoms or speed recovery. Phenylephrine is in a class of medications called nasal decongestants. It works by reducing swelling of the blood vessels in the nasal passages. How should this medicine be used? Phenylephrine comes as a tablet, a liquid, or a dissolving strip to take by mouth. It is usually taken every 4 hours as needed. Follow the directions on your prescription label or the package label carefully, and ask your doctor or pharmacist to explain any part you do not understand. Take phenylephrine exactly as directed. Do not take more or less of it or take it more often than prescribed by your doctor or directed on the label. Phenylephrine comes alone and in combination with other medications. Ask your doctor or pharmacist for advice on which product is best for your symptoms. Check nonprescription cough and cold product labels carefully before using two or more products at the same time. These products may contain the same active ingredient(s) and taking them together could cause you to receive an overdose. This is especially important if you will be giving cough and cold medications to a child. Nonprescription cough and cold combination products, including products that contain phenylephrine, can cause serious side effects or death in young children. Do not give these products to children younger than 4 years of age. If you give these products to children 4 to 11 years of age, use caution and follow the package directions carefully. If you are giving phenylephrine or a combination product that contains phenylephrine to a child, read the package label carefully to be sure that it is the right product for a child of that age. Do not give phenylephrine products that are made for adults to children. Before you give a phenylephrine product to a child, check the package label to find out how much medication the child should receive. Give the dose that matches the child's age on the chart. Ask the child's doctor if you don't know how much medication to give the child. If you are taking the liquid, do not use a household spoon to measure your dose. Use the measuring spoon or cup that came with the medication or use a spoon made especially for measuring medication. If your symptoms do not get better within 7 days or if you have a fever, stop taking phenylephrine and call your doctor. If you are taking the dissolving strips, place one strip on your tongue and allow it to dissolve. Other uses for this medicine This medication may be prescribed for other uses; ask your doctor or pharmacist for more information. What special precautions should I follow? Before taking phenylephrine, tell your doctor and pharmacist if you are allergic to phenylephrine, any other medications, or any of the ingredients in phenylephrine preparations. do not take phenylephrine if you are taking a monoamine oxidase (MAO) inhibitor, such as isocarboxazid (Marplan), phenelzine (Nardil), selegiline (Eldepryl, Emsam, Zelapar), and tranylcypromine (Parnate), or if you have stopped taking one of these medications within the past 2 weeks. tell your doctor and pharmacist what other prescription and nonprescription medications, vitamins, nutritional supplements, and herbal products you are taking or plan to take. tell your doctor if you have or have ever had high blood pressure, diabetes, trouble urinating because of an enlarged prostate gland, or thyroid or heart disease. tell your doctor if you are pregnant, plan to become pregnant, or are breast-feeding. If you become pregnant while taking phenylephrine, call your doctor. if you are having surgery, including dental surgery, tell the doctor or dentist that you are taking phenylephrine. if you have phenylketonuria (PKU, an inherited condition in which a special diet must be followed to prevent damage to your brain that can cause severe intellectual disability), you should know that some phenylephrine products may be sweetened with aspartame, a source of phenylalanine. What special dietary instructions should I follow? Unless your doctor tells you otherwise, continue your normal diet. What should I do if I forget a dose? This medication is usually taken as needed. If your doctor has told you to take phenylephrine regularly, take the missed dose as soon as you remember it. However, if it is almost time for the next dose, skip the missed dose and continue your regular dosing schedule. Do not take a double dose to make up for a missed one. What side effects can this medication cause? Phenylephrine may cause side effects. Some side effects can be serious. If you experience any of these symptoms, stop using phenylephrine and call your doctor: nervousness dizziness sleeplessness Phenylephrine may cause other side effects. Call your doctor if you have any unusual problems while taking this medication. If you experience a serious side effect, you or your doctor may send a report to the Food and Drug Administration's (FDA) MedWatch Adverse Event Reporting program online ( http://www.fda.gov/Safety/MedWatch ) or by phone (1-800-332-1088). What should I know about storage and disposal of this medication? Keep this medication in the container it came in, tightly closed, and out of reach of children. Store it at room temperature and away from excess heat and moisture (not in the bathroom). It is important to keep all medication out of sight and reach of children as many containers (such as weekly pill minders and those for eye drops, creams, patches, and inhalers) are not child-resistant and young children can open them easily. To protect young children from poisoning, always lock safety caps and immediately place the medication in a safe location – one that is up and away and out of their sight and reach. http://www.upandaway.org Unneeded medications should be disposed of in special ways to ensure that pets, children, and other people cannot consume them. However, you should not flush this medication down the toilet. Instead, the best way to dispose of your medication is through a medicine take-back program. Talk to your pharmacist or contact your local garbage/recycling department to learn about take-back programs in your community. See the FDA's Safe Disposal of Medicines website ( http://goo.gl/c4Rm4p ) for more information if you do not have access to a take-back program. In case of emergency/overdose In case of overdose, call the poison control helpline at 1-800-222-1222. Information is also available online at https://www.poisonhelp.org/help . If the victim has collapsed, had a seizure, has trouble breathing, or can't be awakened, immediately call emergency services at 911. What other information should I know? Ask your pharmacist any questions you have about phenylephrine. It is important for you to keep a written list of all of the prescription and nonprescription (over-the-counter) medicines you are taking, as well as any products such as vitamins, minerals, or other dietary supplements. You should bring this list with you each time you visit a doctor or if you are admitted to a hospital. It is also important information to carry with you in case of emergencies. Brand names Children's Sudafed PE Nasal Decongestant ® Lusonal ® § PediaCare Children's Decongestant ® Sudafed PE Congestion ® Suphedrin PE ®

[ Aspirin pronounced as (as' pir in) To use the sharing features on this page, please enable JavaScript. Why is this medication prescribed? How should this medicine be used? Other uses for this medicine What special precautions should I follow? What special dietary instructions should I follow? What should I do if I forget a dose? What side effects can this medication cause? What should I know about storage and disposal of this medication? In case of emergency/overdose What other information should I know? Brand names Other names Why is this medication prescribed? Prescription aspirin is used to relieve the symptoms of rheumatoid arthritis (arthritis caused by swelling of the lining of the joints), osteoarthritis (arthritis caused by breakdown of the lining of the joints), systemic lupus erythematosus (condition in which the immune system attacks the joints and organs and causes pain and swelling) and certain other rheumatologic conditions (conditions in which the immune system attacks parts of the body). Nonprescription aspirin is used to reduce fever and to relieve mild to moderate pain from headaches, menstrual periods, arthritis, toothaches, and muscle aches. Nonprescription aspirin is also used to prevent heart attacks in people who have had a heart attack in the past or who have angina (chest pain that occurs when the heart does not get enough oxygen). Nonprescription aspirin is also used to reduce the risk of death in people who are experiencing or who have recently experienced a heart attack. Nonprescription aspirin is also used to prevent ischemic strokes (strokes that occur when a blood clot blocks the flow of blood to the brain) or mini-strokes (strokes that occur when the flow of blood to the brain is blocked for a short time) in people who have had this type of stroke or mini-stroke in the past. Aspirin will not prevent hemorrhagic strokes (strokes caused by bleeding in the brain). Aspirin is in a group of medications called salicylates. It works by stopping the production of certain natural substances that cause fever, pain, swelling, and blood clots. Aspirin is also available in combination with other medications such as antacids, pain relievers, and cough and cold medications. This monograph only includes information about the use of aspirin alone. If you are taking a combination product, read the information on the package or prescription label or ask your doctor or pharmacist for more information. How should this medicine be used? Prescription aspirin comes as an extended-release (long-acting) tablet. Nonprescription aspirin comes as a regular tablet, a delayed-release (releases the medication in the intestine to prevent damage to the stomach) tablet, a chewable tablet, powder, and a gum to take by mouth. Prescription aspirin is usually taken two or more times a day. Nonprescription aspirin is usually taken once a day to lower the risk of a heart attack or stroke. Nonprescription aspirin is usually taken every 4 to 6 hours as needed to treat fever or pain. Follow the directions on the package or prescription label carefully, and ask your doctor or pharmacist to explain any part you do not understand. Take aspirin exactly as directed. Do not take more or less of it or take it more often than directed by the package label or prescribed by your doctor. Swallow the extended-release tablets whole with a full glass of water. Do not break, crush, or chew them. Swallow the delayed-release tablets with a full glass of water. Chewable aspirin tablets may be chewed, crushed, or swallowed whole. Drink a full glass of water, immediately after taking these tablets. Ask a doctor before you give aspirin to your child or teenager. Aspirin may cause Reye's syndrome (a serious condition in which fat builds up on the brain, liver, and other body organs) in children and teenagers, especially if they have a virus such as chicken pox or the flu. If you have had oral surgery or surgery to remove your tonsils in the last 7 days, talk to your doctor about which types of aspirin are safe for you. Delayed-release tablets begin to work some time after they are taken. Do not take delayed-release tablets for fever or pain that must be relieved quickly. Stop taking aspirin and call your doctor if your fever lasts longer than 3 days, if your pain lasts longer than 10 days, or if the part of your body that was painful becomes red or swollen. You may have a condition that must be treated by a doctor. Other uses for this medicine Aspirin is also sometimes used to treat rheumatic fever (a serious condition that may develop after a strep throat infection and may cause swelling of the heart valves) and Kawasaki disease (an illness that may cause heart problems in children). Aspirin is also sometimes used to lower the risk of blood clots in patients who have artificial heart valves or certain other heart conditions and to prevent certain complications of pregnancy. What special precautions should I follow? Before taking aspirin, tell your doctor and pharmacist if you are allergic to aspirin, other medications for pain or fever, tartrazine dye, or any other medications. tell your doctor and pharmacist what prescription and nonprescription medications, vitamins, nutritional supplements, and herbal products you are taking or plan to take. Be sure to mention any of the following: acetazolamide (Diamox); angiotensin-converting enzyme (ACE) inhibitors such as benazepril (Lotensin), captopril (Capoten), enalapril (Vasotec), fosinopril (Monopril), lisinopril (Prinivil, Zestril), moexipril (Univasc), perindopril, (Aceon), quinapril (Accupril), ramipril (Altace), and trandolapril (Mavik); anticoagulants ('blood thinners') such as warfarin (Coumadin) and heparin; beta blockers such as atenolol (Tenormin), labetalol (Normodyne), metoprolol (Lopressor, Toprol XL), nadolol (Corgard), and propranolol (Inderal); diuretics ('water pills'); medications for diabetes or arthritis; medications for gout such as probenecid and sulfinpyrazone (Anturane); methotrexate (Trexall); other nonsteroidal anti-inflammatory drugs (NSAIDs) such as naproxen (Aleve, Naprosyn); phenytoin (Dilantin); and valproic acid (Depakene, Depakote). Your doctor may need to change the doses of your medications or monitor you more carefully for side effects. if you are taking aspirin on a regular basis to prevent heart attack or stroke, do not take ibuprofen (Advil, Motrin) to treat pain or fever without talking to your doctor. Your doctor will probably tell you to allow some time to pass between taking your daily dose of aspirin and taking a dose of ibuprofen. tell your doctor if you have or have ever had asthma, frequent stuffed or runny nose, or nasal polyps (growths on the linings of the nose). If you have these conditions, there is a risk that you will have an allergic reaction to aspirin. Your doctor may tell you that you should not take aspirin. tell your doctor if you often have heartburn, upset stomach, or stomach pain and if you have or have ever had ulcers, anemia, bleeding problems such as hemophilia, or kidney or liver disease. tell your doctor if you are pregnant, you plan to become pregnant, or if you are breast-feeding. Low dose aspirin 81-mg may be taken during pregnancy, but aspirin doses greater that 81 mg may harm the fetus and cause problems with delivery if it is taken around 20 weeks or later during pregnancy. Do not take aspirin doses greater that 81 mg (e.g., 325 mg) around or after 20 weeks of pregnancy, unless told to do so by your doctor. If you become pregnant while taking aspirin or aspirin containing medications, call your doctor. if you are having surgery, including dental surgery, tell the doctor or dentist that you are taking aspirin. if you drink three or more alcoholic drinks every day, ask your doctor if you should take aspirin or other medications for pain and fever. What special dietary instructions should I follow? Unless your doctor tells you otherwise, continue your normal diet. What should I do if I forget a dose? If your doctor has told you to take aspirin on a regular basis and you miss a dose, take the missed dose as soon as you remember it. However, if it is almost time for the next dose, skip the missed dose and continue your regular dosing schedule. Do not take a double dose to make up for a missed one. What side effects can this medication cause? Aspirin may cause side effects. Tell your doctor if any of these symptoms are severe or do not go away: nausea vomiting stomach pain heartburn Some side effects can be serious. If you experience any of the following symptoms, call your doctor immediately: hives rash swelling of the eyes, face, lips, tongue, or throat wheezing or difficulty breathing hoarseness fast heartbeat fast breathing cold, clammy skin ringing in the ears loss of hearing bloody vomit vomit that looks like coffee grounds bright red blood in stools black or tarry stools Aspirin may cause other side effects. Call your doctor if you experience any unusual problems while you are taking this medication. If you experience a serious side effect, you or your doctor may send a report to the Food and Drug Administration's (FDA) MedWatch Adverse Event Reporting program online ( http://www.fda.gov/Safety/MedWatch ) or by phone (1-800-332-1088). What should I know about storage and disposal of this medication? Keep this medication in the container it came in, tightly closed, and out of reach of children. Store it at room temperature and away from excess heat and moisture (not in the bathroom). Dispose of any tablets that have a strong vinegar smell. It is important to keep all medication out of sight and reach of children as many containers (such as weekly pill minders and those for eye drops, creams, patches, and inhalers) are not child-resistant and young children can open them easily. To protect young children from poisoning, always lock safety caps and immediately place the medication in a safe location – one that is up and away and out of their sight and reach. http://www.upandaway.org Unneeded medications should be disposed of in special ways to ensure that pets, children, and other people cannot consume them. However, you should not flush this medication down the toilet. Instead, the best way to dispose of your medication is through a medicine take-back program. Talk to your pharmacist or contact your local garbage/recycling department to learn about take-back programs in your community. See the FDA's Safe Disposal of Medicines website ( http://goo.gl/c4Rm4p ) for more information if you do not have access to a take-back program. In case of emergency/overdose In case of overdose, call the poison control helpline at 1-800-222-1222. Information is also available online at https://www.poisonhelp.org/help . If the victim has collapsed, had a seizure, has trouble breathing, or can't be awakened, immediately call emergency services at 911. Symptoms of overdose may include: burning pain in the throat or stomach vomiting decreased urination fever restlessness irritability talking a lot and saying things that do not make sense fear or nervousness dizziness double vision uncontrollable shaking of a part of the body confusion abnormally excited mood hallucination (seeing things or hearing voices that are not there) seizures drowsiness loss of consciousness for a period of time What other information should I know? Keep all appointments with your doctor. If you are taking prescription aspirin, do not let anyone else take your medication. Ask your pharmacist any questions you have about refilling your prescription. It is important for you to keep a written list of all of the prescription and nonprescription (over-the-counter) medicines you are taking, as well as any products such as vitamins, minerals, or other dietary supplements. You should bring this list with you each time you visit a doctor or if you are admitted to a hospital. It is also important information to carry with you in case of emergencies. Brand names Acuprin ® Anacin ® Aspirin Regimen Ascriptin ® Aspergum ® Aspidrox ® Aspir-Mox ® Aspirtab ® Aspir-trin ® Bayer ® Aspirin Bufferin ® Buffex ® Easprin ® Ecotrin ® Empirin ® Entaprin ® Entercote ® Fasprin ® Genacote ® Gennin-FC ® Genprin ® Halfprin ® Magnaprin ® Miniprin ® Minitabs ® Ridiprin ® Sloprin ® Uni-Buff ® Uni-Tren ® Valomag ® Zorprin ®

[ Phenylephrine pronounced as (fen il ef' rin)  Phenylephrine is used to relieve nasal discomfort caused by colds, allergies, and hay fever. It is also used to relieve sinus congestion and pressure. Phenylephrine will relieve symptoms but will not treat the cause of the symptoms or speed recovery. Phenylephrine is in a class of medications called nasal decongestants. It works by reducing swelling of the blood vessels in the nasal passages. How should this medicine be used? Phenylephrine comes as a tablet, a liquid, or a dissolving strip to take by mouth. It is usually taken every 4 hours as needed. Follow the directions on your prescription label or the package label carefully, and ask your doctor or pharmacist to explain any part you do not understand. Take phenylephrine exactly as directed. Do not take more or less of it or take it more often than prescribed by your doctor or directed on the label. Phenylephrine comes alone and in combination with other medications. Ask your doctor or pharmacist for advice on which product is best for your symptoms. Check nonprescription cough and cold product labels carefully before using two or more products at the same time. These products may contain the same active ingredient(s) and taking them together could cause you to receive an overdose. This is especially important if you will be giving cough and cold medications to a child. Nonprescription cough and cold combination products, including products that contain phenylephrine, can cause serious side effects or death in young children. Do not give these products to children younger than 4 years of age. If you give these products to children 4 to 11 years of age, use caution and follow the package directions carefully. If you are giving phenylephrine or a combination product that contains phenylephrine to a child, read the package label carefully to be sure that it is the right product for a child of that age. Do not give phenylephrine products that are made for adults to children. Before you give a phenylephrine product to a child, check the package label to find out how much medication the child should receive. Give the dose that matches the child's age on the chart. Ask the child's doctor if you don't know how much medication to give the child. If you are taking the liquid, do not use a household spoon to measure your dose. Use the measuring spoon or cup that came with the medication or use a spoon made especially for measuring medication. If your symptoms do not get better within 7 days or if you have a fever, stop taking phenylephrine and call your doctor. If you are taking the dissolving strips, place one strip on your tongue and allow it to dissolve. Other uses for this medicine This medication may be prescribed for other uses; ask your doctor or pharmacist for more information. What special precautions should I follow? Before taking phenylephrine, tell your doctor and pharmacist if you are allergic to phenylephrine, any other medications, or any of the ingredients in phenylephrine preparations. do not take phenylephrine if you are taking a monoamine oxidase (MAO) inhibitor, such as isocarboxazid (Marplan), phenelzine (Nardil), selegiline (Eldepryl, Emsam, Zelapar), and tranylcypromine (Parnate), or if you have stopped taking one of these medications within the past 2 weeks. tell your doctor and pharmacist what other prescription and nonprescription medications, vitamins, nutritional supplements, and herbal products you are taking or plan to take. tell your doctor if you have or have ever had high blood pressure, diabetes, trouble urinating because of an enlarged prostate gland, or thyroid or heart disease. tell your doctor if you are pregnant, plan to become pregnant, or are breast-feeding. If you become pregnant while taking phenylephrine, call your doctor. if you are having surgery, including dental surgery, tell the doctor or dentist that you are taking phenylephrine. if you have phenylketonuria (PKU, an inherited condition in which a special diet must be followed to prevent damage to your brain that can cause severe intellectual disability), you should know that some phenylephrine products may be sweetened with aspartame, a source of phenylalanine. What special dietary instructions should I follow? Unless your doctor tells you otherwise, continue your normal diet. What should I do if I forget a dose? This medication is usually taken as needed. If your doctor has told you to take phenylephrine regularly, take the missed dose as soon as you remember it. However, if it is almost time for the next dose, skip the missed dose and continue your regular dosing schedule. Do not take a double dose to make up for a missed one. What side effects can this medication cause? Phenylephrine may cause side effects. Some side effects can be serious. If you experience any of these symptoms, stop using phenylephrine and call your doctor: nervousness dizziness sleeplessness Phenylephrine may cause other side effects. Call your doctor if you have any unusual problems while taking this medication. If you experience a serious side effect, you or your doctor may send a report to the Food and Drug Administration's (FDA) MedWatch Adverse Event Reporting program online ( http://www.fda.gov/Safety/MedWatch ) or by phone (1-800-332-1088). What should I know about storage and disposal of this medication? Keep this medication in the container it came in, tightly closed, and out of reach of children. Store it at room temperature and away from excess heat and moisture (not in the bathroom). It is important to keep all medication out of sight and reach of children as many containers (such as weekly pill minders and those for eye drops, creams, patches, and inhalers) are not child-resistant and young children can open them easily. To protect young children from poisoning, always lock safety caps and immediately place the medication in a safe location – one that is up and away and out of their sight and reach. http://www.upandaway.org Unneeded medications should be disposed of in special ways to ensure that pets, children, and other people cannot consume them. However, you should not flush this medication down the toilet. Instead, the best way to dispose of your medication is through a medicine take-back program. Talk to your pharmacist or contact your local garbage/recycling department to learn about take-back programs in your community. See the FDA's Safe Disposal of Medicines website ( http://goo.gl/c4Rm4p ) for more information if you do not have access to a take-back program. In case of emergency/overdose In case of overdose, call the poison control helpline at 1-800-222-1222. Information is also available online at https://www.poisonhelp.org/help . If the victim has collapsed, had a seizure, has trouble breathing, or can't be awakened, immediately call emergency services at 911. What other information should I know? Ask your pharmacist any questions you have about phenylephrine. It is important for you to keep a written list of all of the prescription and nonprescription (over-the-counter) medicines you are taking, as well as any products such as vitamins, minerals, or other dietary supplements. You should bring this list with you each time you visit a doctor or if you are admitted to a hospital. It is also important information to carry with you in case of emergencies. Brand names Children's Sudafed PE Nasal Decongestant ® Lusonal ® § PediaCare Children's Decongestant ® Sudafed PE Congestion ® Suphedrin PE ®

[ Dextromethorphan pronounced as (dex troe meth or' fan) To use the sharing features on this page, please enable JavaScript. Why is this medication prescribed? How should this medicine be used? Other uses for this medicine What special precautions should I follow? What special dietary instructions should I follow? What should I do if I forget a dose? What side effects can this medication cause? What should I know about storage and disposal of this medication? In case of emergency/overdose What other information should I know? Brand names Other names Why is this medication prescribed? Dextromethorphan is used to temporarily relieve cough caused by the common cold, the flu, or other conditions. Dextromethorphan will relieve a cough but will not treat the cause of the cough or speed recovery. Dextromethorphan is in a class of medications called antitussives. It works by decreasing activity in the part of the brain that causes coughing. How should this medicine be used? Dextromethorphan comes as a liquid-filled capsule, a chewable tablet, a dissolving strip, a solution (liquid), an extended-release (long-acting) suspension (liquid), and a lozenge to take by mouth. It is usually taken every 4 to 12 hours as needed. Follow the directions on the package or prescription label carefully, and ask your doctor or pharmacist to explain any part you do not understand. Dextromethorphan should only be used according to the label or package directions. Do not take more than the recommended amount of dextromethorphan in a 24-hour period. Refer to the package or prescription label to determine the amount contained in each dose. Taking dextromethorphan in large amounts can cause serious side effects or death. Dextromethorphan comes alone and in combination with antihistamines, cough suppressants, and decongestants. Ask your doctor or pharmacist for advice on which product is best for your symptoms. Check nonprescription cough and cold product labels carefully before using 2 or more products at the same time. These products may contain the same active ingredient(s) and taking them together could cause you to receive an overdose. This is especially important if you will be giving cough and cold medications to a child. Nonprescription cough and cold combination products, including products that contain dextromethorphan, can cause serious side effects or death in young children. Do not give these products to children younger than 4 years of age. If you give these products to children 4-11 years of age, use caution and follow the package directions carefully. If you are giving dextromethorphan or a combination product that contains dextromethorphan to a child, read the package label carefully to be sure that it is the right product for a child of that age. Do not give dextromethorphan products that are made for adults to children. Before you give a dextromethorphan product to a child, check the package label to find out how much medication the child should receive. Give the dose that matches the child's age on the chart. Ask the child's doctor if you don't know how much medication to give the child. If you are taking the liquid, do not use a household spoon to measure your dose. Use the measuring spoon or cup that came with the medication or use a spoon made especially for measuring medication. If you are using the dissolving strips, place them on your tongue and swallow after they melt. If you are taking the chewable tablets you can allow them to melt in your mouth or you can chew them before swallowing. If you are taking the extended-release suspension, shake the bottle well before each use to mix the medication evenly. If you are taking the lozenges, allow them to slowly melt in your mouth. Stop taking dextromethorphan and call your doctor if your cough does not get better within 7 days, if your cough goes away and comes back, or if your cough occurs with a fever, rash, or headache. Other uses for this medicine This medication is sometimes prescribed for other uses; ask your doctor or pharmacist for more information. What special precautions should I follow? Before taking dextromethorphan, tell your doctor and pharmacist if you are allergic to dextromethorphan, any other medications, or any of the ingredients in the product you plan to take. Check the package label for a list of the ingredients. do not take dextromethorphan if you are taking a monoamine oxidase (MAO) inhibitor such as isocarboxazid (Marplan), phenelzine (Nardil), selegiline (Eldepryl, Emsam, Zelapar), and tranylcypromine (Parnate), or if you have stopped taking an MAO inhibitor within the past 2 weeks. tell your doctor and pharmacist what prescription and nonprescription medications, vitamins, nutritional supplements, and herbal products you are taking or plan to take. tell your doctor if you smoke, if you have a cough that occurs with a large amount of phlegm (mucus), or if you have or have ever had breathing problems such as asthma, emphysema, or chronic bronchitis. tell your doctor if you are pregnant, plan to become pregnant, or are breast-feeding. If you become pregnant while taking dextromethorphan, call your doctor. if you have phenylketonuria (PKU, an inherited condition in which a special diet must be followed to prevent damage to your brain that can cause severe intellectual disability), you should know that some brands of chewable tablets that contain dextromethorphan may be sweetened with aspartame, a source of phenylalanine. What special dietary instructions should I follow? Unless your doctor tells you otherwise, continue your normal diet. What should I do if I forget a dose? Dextromethorphan is usually taken as needed. If your doctor has told you to take dextromethorphan regularly, take the missed dose as soon as you remember it. However, if it is almost time for the next dose, skip the missed dose and continue your regular dosing schedule. Do not take a double dose to make up for a missed one. What side effects can this medication cause? Dextromethorphan may cause side effects. Tell your doctor if any of these symptoms are severe or do not go away: dizziness lightheadedness drowsiness nervousness restlessness nausea vomiting stomach pain If you experience any of the following symptoms, call your doctor immediately: rash Dextromethorphan may cause other side effects. Call your doctor if you experience any unusual problems while you are taking this medication. If you experience a serious side effect, you or your doctor may send a report to the Food and Drug Administration's (FDA) MedWatch Adverse Event Reporting program online ( http://www.fda.gov/Safety/MedWatch ) or by phone (1-800-332-1088). What should I know about storage and disposal of this medication? Keep this medication in the container it came in, tightly closed, and out of reach of children. Store it at room temperature and away from excess heat and moisture (not in the bathroom). Unneeded medications should be disposed of in special ways to ensure that pets, children, and other people cannot consume them. However, you should not flush this medication down the toilet. Instead, the best way to dispose of your medication is through a medicine take-back program. Talk to your pharmacist or contact your local garbage/recycling department to learn about take-back programs in your community. See the FDA's Safe Disposal of Medicines website ( http://goo.gl/c4Rm4p ) for more information if you do not have access to a take-back program. It is important to keep all medication out of sight and reach of children as many containers (such as weekly pill minders and those for eye drops, creams, patches, and inhalers) are not child-resistant and young children can open them easily. To protect young children from poisoning, always lock safety caps and immediately place the medication in a safe location – one that is up and away and out of their sight and reach. http://www.upandaway.org In case of emergency/overdose In case of overdose, call the poison control helpline at 1-800-222-1222. Information is also available online at https://www.poisonhelp.org/help . If the victim has collapsed, had a seizure, has trouble breathing, or can't be awakened, immediately call emergency services at 911. Symptoms of overdose may include: nausea vomiting drowsiness dizziness unsteadiness changes in vision difficulty breathing fast heartbeat hallucinating (seeing things or hearing voices that do not exist) seizures coma (loss of consciousness for a period of time) What other information should I know? Ask your pharmacist any questions you have about dextromethorphan. It is important for you to keep a written list of all of the prescription and nonprescription (over-the-counter) medicines you are taking, as well as any products such as vitamins, minerals, or other dietary supplements. You should bring this list with you each time you visit a doctor or if you are admitted to a hospital. It is also important information to carry with you in case of emergencies. Brand names Delsym 12-hour Cough Robitussin Cough Long-Acting ® Triaminic Long-Acting Cough ® Vicks DayQuil Cough ®

[ Dextromethorphan pronounced as (dex troe meth or' fan) To use the sharing features on this page, please enable JavaScript. Why is this medication prescribed? How should this medicine be used? Other uses for this medicine What special precautions should I follow? What special dietary instructions should I follow? What should I do if I forget a dose? What side effects can this medication cause? What should I know about storage and disposal of this medication? In case of emergency/overdose What other information should I know? Brand names Other names Why is this medication prescribed? Dextromethorphan is used to temporarily relieve cough caused by the common cold, the flu, or other conditions. Dextromethorphan will relieve a cough but will not treat the cause of the cough or speed recovery. Dextromethorphan is in a class of medications called antitussives. It works by decreasing activity in the part of the brain that causes coughing. How should this medicine be used? Dextromethorphan comes as a liquid-filled capsule, a chewable tablet, a dissolving strip, a solution (liquid), an extended-release (long-acting) suspension (liquid), and a lozenge to take by mouth. It is usually taken every 4 to 12 hours as needed. Follow the directions on the package or prescription label carefully, and ask your doctor or pharmacist to explain any part you do not understand. Dextromethorphan should only be used according to the label or package directions. Do not take more than the recommended amount of dextromethorphan in a 24-hour period. Refer to the package or prescription label to determine the amount contained in each dose. Taking dextromethorphan in large amounts can cause serious side effects or death. Dextromethorphan comes alone and in combination with antihistamines, cough suppressants, and decongestants. Ask your doctor or pharmacist for advice on which product is best for your symptoms. Check nonprescription cough and cold product labels carefully before using 2 or more products at the same time. These products may contain the same active ingredient(s) and taking them together could cause you to receive an overdose. This is especially important if you will be giving cough and cold medications to a child. Nonprescription cough and cold combination products, including products that contain dextromethorphan, can cause serious side effects or death in young children. Do not give these products to children younger than 4 years of age. If you give these products to children 4-11 years of age, use caution and follow the package directions carefully. If you are giving dextromethorphan or a combination product that contains dextromethorphan to a child, read the package label carefully to be sure that it is the right product for a child of that age. Do not give dextromethorphan products that are made for adults to children. Before you give a dextromethorphan product to a child, check the package label to find out how much medication the child should receive. Give the dose that matches the child's age on the chart. Ask the child's doctor if you don't know how much medication to give the child. If you are taking the liquid, do not use a household spoon to measure your dose. Use the measuring spoon or cup that came with the medication or use a spoon made especially for measuring medication. If you are using the dissolving strips, place them on your tongue and swallow after they melt. If you are taking the chewable tablets you can allow them to melt in your mouth or you can chew them before swallowing. If you are taking the extended-release suspension, shake the bottle well before each use to mix the medication evenly. If you are taking the lozenges, allow them to slowly melt in your mouth. Stop taking dextromethorphan and call your doctor if your cough does not get better within 7 days, if your cough goes away and comes back, or if your cough occurs with a fever, rash, or headache. Other uses for this medicine This medication is sometimes prescribed for other uses; ask your doctor or pharmacist for more information. What special precautions should I follow? Before taking dextromethorphan, tell your doctor and pharmacist if you are allergic to dextromethorphan, any other medications, or any of the ingredients in the product you plan to take. Check the package label for a list of the ingredients. do not take dextromethorphan if you are taking a monoamine oxidase (MAO) inhibitor such as isocarboxazid (Marplan), phenelzine (Nardil), selegiline (Eldepryl, Emsam, Zelapar), and tranylcypromine (Parnate), or if you have stopped taking an MAO inhibitor within the past 2 weeks. tell your doctor and pharmacist what prescription and nonprescription medications, vitamins, nutritional supplements, and herbal products you are taking or plan to take. tell your doctor if you smoke, if you have a cough that occurs with a large amount of phlegm (mucus), or if you have or have ever had breathing problems such as asthma, emphysema, or chronic bronchitis. tell your doctor if you are pregnant, plan to become pregnant, or are breast-feeding. If you become pregnant while taking dextromethorphan, call your doctor. if you have phenylketonuria (PKU, an inherited condition in which a special diet must be followed to prevent damage to your brain that can cause severe intellectual disability), you should know that some brands of chewable tablets that contain dextromethorphan may be sweetened with aspartame, a source of phenylalanine. What special dietary instructions should I follow? Unless your doctor tells you otherwise, continue your normal diet. What should I do if I forget a dose? Dextromethorphan is usually taken as needed. If your doctor has told you to take dextromethorphan regularly, take the missed dose as soon as you remember it. However, if it is almost time for the next dose, skip the missed dose and continue your regular dosing schedule. Do not take a double dose to make up for a missed one. What side effects can this medication cause? Dextromethorphan may cause side effects. Tell your doctor if any of these symptoms are severe or do not go away: dizziness lightheadedness drowsiness nervousness restlessness nausea vomiting stomach pain If you experience any of the following symptoms, call your doctor immediately: rash Dextromethorphan may cause other side effects. Call your doctor if you experience any unusual problems while you are taking this medication. If you experience a serious side effect, you or your doctor may send a report to the Food and Drug Administration's (FDA) MedWatch Adverse Event Reporting program online ( http://www.fda.gov/Safety/MedWatch ) or by phone (1-800-332-1088). What should I know about storage and disposal of this medication? Keep this medication in the container it came in, tightly closed, and out of reach of children. Store it at room temperature and away from excess heat and moisture (not in the bathroom). Unneeded medications should be disposed of in special ways to ensure that pets, children, and other people cannot consume them. However, you should not flush this medication down the toilet. Instead, the best way to dispose of your medication is through a medicine take-back program. Talk to your pharmacist or contact your local garbage/recycling department to learn about take-back programs in your community. See the FDA's Safe Disposal of Medicines website ( http://goo.gl/c4Rm4p ) for more information if you do not have access to a take-back program. It is important to keep all medication out of sight and reach of children as many containers (such as weekly pill minders and those for eye drops, creams, patches, and inhalers) are not child-resistant and young children can open them easily. To protect young children from poisoning, always lock safety caps and immediately place the medication in a safe location – one that is up and away and out of their sight and reach. http://www.upandaway.org In case of emergency/overdose In case of overdose, call the poison control helpline at 1-800-222-1222. Information is also available online at https://www.poisonhelp.org/help . If the victim has collapsed, had a seizure, has trouble breathing, or can't be awakened, immediately call emergency services at 911. Symptoms of overdose may include: nausea vomiting drowsiness dizziness unsteadiness changes in vision difficulty breathing fast heartbeat hallucinating (seeing things or hearing voices that do not exist) seizures coma (loss of consciousness for a period of time) What other information should I know? Ask your pharmacist any questions you have about dextromethorphan. It is important for you to keep a written list of all of the prescription and nonprescription (over-the-counter) medicines you are taking, as well as any products such as vitamins, minerals, or other dietary supplements. You should bring this list with you each time you visit a doctor or if you are admitted to a hospital. It is also important information to carry with you in case of emergencies. Brand names Delsym 12-hour Cough Robitussin Cough Long-Acting ® Triaminic Long-Acting Cough ® Vicks DayQuil Cough ®

[ Phenylephrine pronounced as (fen il ef' rin)  Phenylephrine is used to relieve nasal discomfort caused by colds, allergies, and hay fever. It is also used to relieve sinus congestion and pressure. Phenylephrine will relieve symptoms but will not treat the cause of the symptoms or speed recovery. Phenylephrine is in a class of medications called nasal decongestants. It works by reducing swelling of the blood vessels in the nasal passages. How should this medicine be used? Phenylephrine comes as a tablet, a liquid, or a dissolving strip to take by mouth. It is usually taken every 4 hours as needed. Follow the directions on your prescription label or the package label carefully, and ask your doctor or pharmacist to explain any part you do not understand. Take phenylephrine exactly as directed. Do not take more or less of it or take it more often than prescribed by your doctor or directed on the label. Phenylephrine comes alone and in combination with other medications. Ask your doctor or pharmacist for advice on which product is best for your symptoms. Check nonprescription cough and cold product labels carefully before using two or more products at the same time. These products may contain the same active ingredient(s) and taking them together could cause you to receive an overdose. This is especially important if you will be giving cough and cold medications to a child. Nonprescription cough and cold combination products, including products that contain phenylephrine, can cause serious side effects or death in young children. Do not give these products to children younger than 4 years of age. If you give these products to children 4 to 11 years of age, use caution and follow the package directions carefully. If you are giving phenylephrine or a combination product that contains phenylephrine to a child, read the package label carefully to be sure that it is the right product for a child of that age. Do not give phenylephrine products that are made for adults to children. Before you give a phenylephrine product to a child, check the package label to find out how much medication the child should receive. Give the dose that matches the child's age on the chart. Ask the child's doctor if you don't know how much medication to give the child. If you are taking the liquid, do not use a household spoon to measure your dose. Use the measuring spoon or cup that came with the medication or use a spoon made especially for measuring medication. If your symptoms do not get better within 7 days or if you have a fever, stop taking phenylephrine and call your doctor. If you are taking the dissolving strips, place one strip on your tongue and allow it to dissolve. Other uses for this medicine This medication may be prescribed for other uses; ask your doctor or pharmacist for more information. What special precautions should I follow? Before taking phenylephrine, tell your doctor and pharmacist if you are allergic to phenylephrine, any other medications, or any of the ingredients in phenylephrine preparations. do not take phenylephrine if you are taking a monoamine oxidase (MAO) inhibitor, such as isocarboxazid (Marplan), phenelzine (Nardil), selegiline (Eldepryl, Emsam, Zelapar), and tranylcypromine (Parnate), or if you have stopped taking one of these medications within the past 2 weeks. tell your doctor and pharmacist what other prescription and nonprescription medications, vitamins, nutritional supplements, and herbal products you are taking or plan to take. tell your doctor if you have or have ever had high blood pressure, diabetes, trouble urinating because of an enlarged prostate gland, or thyroid or heart disease. tell your doctor if you are pregnant, plan to become pregnant, or are breast-feeding. If you become pregnant while taking phenylephrine, call your doctor. if you are having surgery, including dental surgery, tell the doctor or dentist that you are taking phenylephrine. if you have phenylketonuria (PKU, an inherited condition in which a special diet must be followed to prevent damage to your brain that can cause severe intellectual disability), you should know that some phenylephrine products may be sweetened with aspartame, a source of phenylalanine. What special dietary instructions should I follow? Unless your doctor tells you otherwise, continue your normal diet. What should I do if I forget a dose? This medication is usually taken as needed. If your doctor has told you to take phenylephrine regularly, take the missed dose as soon as you remember it. However, if it is almost time for the next dose, skip the missed dose and continue your regular dosing schedule. Do not take a double dose to make up for a missed one. What side effects can this medication cause? Phenylephrine may cause side effects. Some side effects can be serious. If you experience any of these symptoms, stop using phenylephrine and call your doctor: nervousness dizziness sleeplessness Phenylephrine may cause other side effects. Call your doctor if you have any unusual problems while taking this medication. If you experience a serious side effect, you or your doctor may send a report to the Food and Drug Administration's (FDA) MedWatch Adverse Event Reporting program online ( http://www.fda.gov/Safety/MedWatch ) or by phone (1-800-332-1088). What should I know about storage and disposal of this medication? Keep this medication in the container it came in, tightly closed, and out of reach of children. Store it at room temperature and away from excess heat and moisture (not in the bathroom). It is important to keep all medication out of sight and reach of children as many containers (such as weekly pill minders and those for eye drops, creams, patches, and inhalers) are not child-resistant and young children can open them easily. To protect young children from poisoning, always lock safety caps and immediately place the medication in a safe location – one that is up and away and out of their sight and reach. http://www.upandaway.org Unneeded medications should be disposed of in special ways to ensure that pets, children, and other people cannot consume them. However, you should not flush this medication down the toilet. Instead, the best way to dispose of your medication is through a medicine take-back program. Talk to your pharmacist or contact your local garbage/recycling department to learn about take-back programs in your community. See the FDA's Safe Disposal of Medicines website ( http://goo.gl/c4Rm4p ) for more information if you do not have access to a take-back program. In case of emergency/overdose In case of overdose, call the poison control helpline at 1-800-222-1222. Information is also available online at https://www.poisonhelp.org/help . If the victim has collapsed, had a seizure, has trouble breathing, or can't be awakened, immediately call emergency services at 911. What other information should I know? Ask your pharmacist any questions you have about phenylephrine. It is important for you to keep a written list of all of the prescription and nonprescription (over-the-counter) medicines you are taking, as well as any products such as vitamins, minerals, or other dietary supplements. You should bring this list with you each time you visit a doctor or if you are admitted to a hospital. It is also important information to carry with you in case of emergencies. Brand names Children's Sudafed PE Nasal Decongestant ® Lusonal ® § PediaCare Children's Decongestant ® Sudafed PE Congestion ® Suphedrin PE ®

[ Dextromethorphan pronounced as (dex troe meth or' fan) To use the sharing features on this page, please enable JavaScript. Why is this medication prescribed? How should this medicine be used? Other uses for this medicine What special precautions should I follow? What special dietary instructions should I follow? What should I do if I forget a dose? What side effects can this medication cause? What should I know about storage and disposal of this medication? In case of emergency/overdose What other information should I know? Brand names Other names Why is this medication prescribed? Dextromethorphan is used to temporarily relieve cough caused by the common cold, the flu, or other conditions. Dextromethorphan will relieve a cough but will not treat the cause of the cough or speed recovery. Dextromethorphan is in a class of medications called antitussives. It works by decreasing activity in the part of the brain that causes coughing. How should this medicine be used? Dextromethorphan comes as a liquid-filled capsule, a chewable tablet, a dissolving strip, a solution (liquid), an extended-release (long-acting) suspension (liquid), and a lozenge to take by mouth. It is usually taken every 4 to 12 hours as needed. Follow the directions on the package or prescription label carefully, and ask your doctor or pharmacist to explain any part you do not understand. Dextromethorphan should only be used according to the label or package directions. Do not take more than the recommended amount of dextromethorphan in a 24-hour period. Refer to the package or prescription label to determine the amount contained in each dose. Taking dextromethorphan in large amounts can cause serious side effects or death. Dextromethorphan comes alone and in combination with antihistamines, cough suppressants, and decongestants. Ask your doctor or pharmacist for advice on which product is best for your symptoms. Check nonprescription cough and cold product labels carefully before using 2 or more products at the same time. These products may contain the same active ingredient(s) and taking them together could cause you to receive an overdose. This is especially important if you will be giving cough and cold medications to a child. Nonprescription cough and cold combination products, including products that contain dextromethorphan, can cause serious side effects or death in young children. Do not give these products to children younger than 4 years of age. If you give these products to children 4-11 years of age, use caution and follow the package directions carefully. If you are giving dextromethorphan or a combination product that contains dextromethorphan to a child, read the package label carefully to be sure that it is the right product for a child of that age. Do not give dextromethorphan products that are made for adults to children. Before you give a dextromethorphan product to a child, check the package label to find out how much medication the child should receive. Give the dose that matches the child's age on the chart. Ask the child's doctor if you don't know how much medication to give the child. If you are taking the liquid, do not use a household spoon to measure your dose. Use the measuring spoon or cup that came with the medication or use a spoon made especially for measuring medication. If you are using the dissolving strips, place them on your tongue and swallow after they melt. If you are taking the chewable tablets you can allow them to melt in your mouth or you can chew them before swallowing. If you are taking the extended-release suspension, shake the bottle well before each use to mix the medication evenly. If you are taking the lozenges, allow them to slowly melt in your mouth. Stop taking dextromethorphan and call your doctor if your cough does not get better within 7 days, if your cough goes away and comes back, or if your cough occurs with a fever, rash, or headache. Other uses for this medicine This medication is sometimes prescribed for other uses; ask your doctor or pharmacist for more information. What special precautions should I follow? Before taking dextromethorphan, tell your doctor and pharmacist if you are allergic to dextromethorphan, any other medications, or any of the ingredients in the product you plan to take. Check the package label for a list of the ingredients. do not take dextromethorphan if you are taking a monoamine oxidase (MAO) inhibitor such as isocarboxazid (Marplan), phenelzine (Nardil), selegiline (Eldepryl, Emsam, Zelapar), and tranylcypromine (Parnate), or if you have stopped taking an MAO inhibitor within the past 2 weeks. tell your doctor and pharmacist what prescription and nonprescription medications, vitamins, nutritional supplements, and herbal products you are taking or plan to take. tell your doctor if you smoke, if you have a cough that occurs with a large amount of phlegm (mucus), or if you have or have ever had breathing problems such as asthma, emphysema, or chronic bronchitis. tell your doctor if you are pregnant, plan to become pregnant, or are breast-feeding. If you become pregnant while taking dextromethorphan, call your doctor. if you have phenylketonuria (PKU, an inherited condition in which a special diet must be followed to prevent damage to your brain that can cause severe intellectual disability), you should know that some brands of chewable tablets that contain dextromethorphan may be sweetened with aspartame, a source of phenylalanine. What special dietary instructions should I follow? Unless your doctor tells you otherwise, continue your normal diet. What should I do if I forget a dose? Dextromethorphan is usually taken as needed. If your doctor has told you to take dextromethorphan regularly, take the missed dose as soon as you remember it. However, if it is almost time for the next dose, skip the missed dose and continue your regular dosing schedule. Do not take a double dose to make up for a missed one. What side effects can this medication cause? Dextromethorphan may cause side effects. Tell your doctor if any of these symptoms are severe or do not go away: dizziness lightheadedness drowsiness nervousness restlessness nausea vomiting stomach pain If you experience any of the following symptoms, call your doctor immediately: rash Dextromethorphan may cause other side effects. Call your doctor if you experience any unusual problems while you are taking this medication. If you experience a serious side effect, you or your doctor may send a report to the Food and Drug Administration's (FDA) MedWatch Adverse Event Reporting program online ( http://www.fda.gov/Safety/MedWatch ) or by phone (1-800-332-1088). What should I know about storage and disposal of this medication? Keep this medication in the container it came in, tightly closed, and out of reach of children. Store it at room temperature and away from excess heat and moisture (not in the bathroom). Unneeded medications should be disposed of in special ways to ensure that pets, children, and other people cannot consume them. However, you should not flush this medication down the toilet. Instead, the best way to dispose of your medication is through a medicine take-back program. Talk to your pharmacist or contact your local garbage/recycling department to learn about take-back programs in your community. See the FDA's Safe Disposal of Medicines website ( http://goo.gl/c4Rm4p ) for more information if you do not have access to a take-back program. It is important to keep all medication out of sight and reach of children as many containers (such as weekly pill minders and those for eye drops, creams, patches, and inhalers) are not child-resistant and young children can open them easily. To protect young children from poisoning, always lock safety caps and immediately place the medication in a safe location – one that is up and away and out of their sight and reach. http://www.upandaway.org In case of emergency/overdose In case of overdose, call the poison control helpline at 1-800-222-1222. Information is also available online at https://www.poisonhelp.org/help . If the victim has collapsed, had a seizure, has trouble breathing, or can't be awakened, immediately call emergency services at 911. Symptoms of overdose may include: nausea vomiting drowsiness dizziness unsteadiness changes in vision difficulty breathing fast heartbeat hallucinating (seeing things or hearing voices that do not exist) seizures coma (loss of consciousness for a period of time) What other information should I know? Ask your pharmacist any questions you have about dextromethorphan. It is important for you to keep a written list of all of the prescription and nonprescription (over-the-counter) medicines you are taking, as well as any products such as vitamins, minerals, or other dietary supplements. You should bring this list with you each time you visit a doctor or if you are admitted to a hospital. It is also important information to carry with you in case of emergencies. Brand names Delsym 12-hour Cough Robitussin Cough Long-Acting ® Triaminic Long-Acting Cough ® Vicks DayQuil Cough ®

[ Doxylamine pronounced as (dox il' a meen)  Doxylamine is used in the short-term treatment of insomnia (difficulty falling asleep or staying asleep). Doxylamine is also used in combination with decongestants and other medications to relieve sneezing, runny nose, and nasal congestion caused by the common cold. Doxylamine should not be used to cause sleepiness in children. Doxylamine is in a class of medications called antihistamines. It works by blocking the action of histamine, a substance in the body that causes allergic symptoms. How should this medicine be used? Doxylamine comes as a tablet to take by mouth for sleep, and in combination with other medications as a liquid and liquid-filled capsule to treat symptoms of the common cold. When doxylamine is used to reduce difficulty falling asleep, it usually is taken 30 minutes before bedtime. When doxylamine is used to treat cold symptoms, it is usually taken every 4 to 6 hours. Follow the directions on the package label or on your prescription label carefully, and ask your doctor or pharmacist to explain any part you do not understand. Take doxylamine exactly as directed. Do not take more or less of it or take it more often than prescribed by your doctor or directed on the package label. Doxylamine comes alone and in combination with pain relievers, fever reducers, and cough suppressants, If you are choosing a product to treat cough or cold symptoms, ask your doctor or pharmacist for advice on which product is best for your symptoms. Check nonprescription cough and cold product labels carefully before using two or more products at the same time. These products may contain the same active ingredient(s) and taking them together could cause you to receive an overdose. Nonprescription cough and cold combination products, including products that contain doxylamine, can cause serious side effects or death in young children. Do not give nonprescription products that contain doxylamine to children younger than 4 years of age. Ask a doctor before giving these products to children 4 to 12 years of age. Cough and cold symptoms that get worse or that do not go away may be signs of a more serious condition. If you are taking doxylamine in combination with other medications to treat cough and cold symptoms, call your doctor if your symptoms worsen or if they last longer than 7 days. If you are taking doxylamine to treat insomnia, you will probably become very sleepy soon after you take the medication and will remain sleepy for some time after you take the medication. Plan to remain asleep for 7 to 8 hours after taking the medication. If you get up too soon after taking doxylamine, you may be drowsy. Doxylamine should only be used to treat insomnia for a short time. Call your doctor if you feel that you need to take doxylamine for longer than 2 weeks. If you are using the liquid, do not use a household spoon to measure your dose. Use the measuring cup or spoon that came with the medication or use a spoon that is made especially for measuring medication. Other uses for this medicine This medication is sometimes prescribed for other uses; ask your doctor or pharmacist for more information. What special precautions should I follow? Before taking doxylamine, tell your doctor and pharmacist if you are allergic to doxylamine, any other medications, or any of the ingredients in the doxylamine preparation. Ask your doctor or pharmacist or check the package label for a list of the ingredients. tell your doctor and pharmacist what prescription and nonprescription medications, vitamins, nutritional supplements, and herbal products you are taking or plan to take. Be sure to mention any of the following: medications for colds, hay fever, or allergies; medications for depression; muscle relaxants; narcotic medications for pain; sedatives; sleep medications; and tranquilizers. tell your doctor if you have or have ever had asthma, emphysema, chronic bronchitis, or other breathing problems; glaucoma (a condition in which increased pressure in the eye can lead to gradual loss of vision); ulcers; difficulty urinating (due to an enlarged prostate gland); heart disease, high blood pressure, seizures,or an overactive thyroid gland. tell your doctor if you are pregnant, plan to become pregnant, or are breast-feeding. If you become pregnant while taking doxylamine, call your doctor. if you are having surgery, including dental surgery, tell the doctor or dentist that you are taking doxylamine. you should know that this medication may make you drowsy. Do not drive a car or operate machinery until you know how this medication affects you. remember that alcohol can add to the drowsiness caused by this medication. Avoid alcoholic beverages while you are taking this medication. talk to your doctor about the risks and benefits of taking doxylamine if you are 65 years of age or older. Older adults should not usually take doxylamine because it is not as safe or effective as other medications that can be used to treat the same condition. What special dietary instructions should I follow? Unless your doctor tells you otherwise, continue your normal diet. What should I do if I forget a dose? Doxylamine is usually taken as needed. If your doctor has told you to take doxylamine regularly, take the missed dose as soon as you remember it. However, if it is almost time for the next dose, skip the missed dose and continue your regular dosing schedule. Do not take a double dose to make up for a missed one. What side effects can this medication cause? Doxylamine may cause side effects. Tell your doctor if any of these symptoms are severe or do not go away: dry mouth, nose, and throat drowsiness nausea increased chest congestion headache excitement nervousness Some side effects can be serious. If you experience any of the following symptoms, call your doctor immediately: vision problems difficulty urinating Doxylamine may cause other side effects. Call your doctor if you have any unusual problems while you are taking this medication. If you experience a serious side effect, you or your doctor may send a report to the Food and Drug Administration's (FDA) MedWatch Adverse Event Reporting program online ( http://www.fda.gov/Safety/MedWatch ) or by phone (1-800-332-1088). What should I know about storage and disposal of this medication? Keep this medication in the container it came in, tightly closed, and out of reach of children. Store it at room temperature and away from excess heat and moisture (not in the bathroom). It is important to keep all medication out of sight and reach of children as many containers (such as weekly pill minders and those for eye drops, creams, patches, and inhalers) are not child-resistant and young children can open them easily. To protect young children from poisoning, always lock safety caps and immediately place the medication in a safe location – one that is up and away and out of their sight and reach. http://www.upandaway.org Unneeded medications should be disposed of in special ways to ensure that pets, children, and other people cannot consume them. However, you should not flush this medication down the toilet. Instead, the best way to dispose of your medication is through a medicine take-back program. Talk to your pharmacist or contact your local garbage/recycling department to learn about take-back programs in your community. See the FDA's Safe Disposal of Medicines website ( http://goo.gl/c4Rm4p ) for more information if you do not have access to a take-back program. In case of emergency/overdose In case of overdose, call the poison control helpline at 1-800-222-1222. Information is also available online at https://www.poisonhelp.org/help . If the victim has collapsed, had a seizure, has trouble breathing, or can't be awakened, immediately call emergency services at 911. What other information should I know? Ask your pharmacist any questions you have about doxylamine. It is important for you to keep a written list of all of the prescription and nonprescription (over-the-counter) medicines you are taking, as well as any products such as vitamins, minerals, or other dietary supplements. You should bring this list with you each time you visit a doctor or if you are admitted to a hospital. It is also important information to carry with you in case of emergencies. Brand names Aldex AN ® Nighttime Sleep Aid Unisom ® SleepTabs

[ Phenylephrine pronounced as (fen il ef' rin)  Phenylephrine is used to relieve nasal discomfort caused by colds, allergies, and hay fever. It is also used to relieve sinus congestion and pressure. Phenylephrine will relieve symptoms but will not treat the cause of the symptoms or speed recovery. Phenylephrine is in a class of medications called nasal decongestants. It works by reducing swelling of the blood vessels in the nasal passages. How should this medicine be used? Phenylephrine comes as a tablet, a liquid, or a dissolving strip to take by mouth. It is usually taken every 4 hours as needed. Follow the directions on your prescription label or the package label carefully, and ask your doctor or pharmacist to explain any part you do not understand. Take phenylephrine exactly as directed. Do not take more or less of it or take it more often than prescribed by your doctor or directed on the label. Phenylephrine comes alone and in combination with other medications. Ask your doctor or pharmacist for advice on which product is best for your symptoms. Check nonprescription cough and cold product labels carefully before using two or more products at the same time. These products may contain the same active ingredient(s) and taking them together could cause you to receive an overdose. This is especially important if you will be giving cough and cold medications to a child. Nonprescription cough and cold combination products, including products that contain phenylephrine, can cause serious side effects or death in young children. Do not give these products to children younger than 4 years of age. If you give these products to children 4 to 11 years of age, use caution and follow the package directions carefully. If you are giving phenylephrine or a combination product that contains phenylephrine to a child, read the package label carefully to be sure that it is the right product for a child of that age. Do not give phenylephrine products that are made for adults to children. Before you give a phenylephrine product to a child, check the package label to find out how much medication the child should receive. Give the dose that matches the child's age on the chart. Ask the child's doctor if you don't know how much medication to give the child. If you are taking the liquid, do not use a household spoon to measure your dose. Use the measuring spoon or cup that came with the medication or use a spoon made especially for measuring medication. If your symptoms do not get better within 7 days or if you have a fever, stop taking phenylephrine and call your doctor. If you are taking the dissolving strips, place one strip on your tongue and allow it to dissolve. Other uses for this medicine This medication may be prescribed for other uses; ask your doctor or pharmacist for more information. What special precautions should I follow? Before taking phenylephrine, tell your doctor and pharmacist if you are allergic to phenylephrine, any other medications, or any of the ingredients in phenylephrine preparations. do not take phenylephrine if you are taking a monoamine oxidase (MAO) inhibitor, such as isocarboxazid (Marplan), phenelzine (Nardil), selegiline (Eldepryl, Emsam, Zelapar), and tranylcypromine (Parnate), or if you have stopped taking one of these medications within the past 2 weeks. tell your doctor and pharmacist what other prescription and nonprescription medications, vitamins, nutritional supplements, and herbal products you are taking or plan to take. tell your doctor if you have or have ever had high blood pressure, diabetes, trouble urinating because of an enlarged prostate gland, or thyroid or heart disease. tell your doctor if you are pregnant, plan to become pregnant, or are breast-feeding. If you become pregnant while taking phenylephrine, call your doctor. if you are having surgery, including dental surgery, tell the doctor or dentist that you are taking phenylephrine. if you have phenylketonuria (PKU, an inherited condition in which a special diet must be followed to prevent damage to your brain that can cause severe intellectual disability), you should know that some phenylephrine products may be sweetened with aspartame, a source of phenylalanine. What special dietary instructions should I follow? Unless your doctor tells you otherwise, continue your normal diet. What should I do if I forget a dose? This medication is usually taken as needed. If your doctor has told you to take phenylephrine regularly, take the missed dose as soon as you remember it. However, if it is almost time for the next dose, skip the missed dose and continue your regular dosing schedule. Do not take a double dose to make up for a missed one. What side effects can this medication cause? Phenylephrine may cause side effects. Some side effects can be serious. If you experience any of these symptoms, stop using phenylephrine and call your doctor: nervousness dizziness sleeplessness Phenylephrine may cause other side effects. Call your doctor if you have any unusual problems while taking this medication. If you experience a serious side effect, you or your doctor may send a report to the Food and Drug Administration's (FDA) MedWatch Adverse Event Reporting program online ( http://www.fda.gov/Safety/MedWatch ) or by phone (1-800-332-1088). What should I know about storage and disposal of this medication? Keep this medication in the container it came in, tightly closed, and out of reach of children. Store it at room temperature and away from excess heat and moisture (not in the bathroom). It is important to keep all medication out of sight and reach of children as many containers (such as weekly pill minders and those for eye drops, creams, patches, and inhalers) are not child-resistant and young children can open them easily. To protect young children from poisoning, always lock safety caps and immediately place the medication in a safe location – one that is up and away and out of their sight and reach. http://www.upandaway.org Unneeded medications should be disposed of in special ways to ensure that pets, children, and other people cannot consume them. However, you should not flush this medication down the toilet. Instead, the best way to dispose of your medication is through a medicine take-back program. Talk to your pharmacist or contact your local garbage/recycling department to learn about take-back programs in your community. See the FDA's Safe Disposal of Medicines website ( http://goo.gl/c4Rm4p ) for more information if you do not have access to a take-back program. In case of emergency/overdose In case of overdose, call the poison control helpline at 1-800-222-1222. Information is also available online at https://www.poisonhelp.org/help . If the victim has collapsed, had a seizure, has trouble breathing, or can't be awakened, immediately call emergency services at 911. What other information should I know? Ask your pharmacist any questions you have about phenylephrine. It is important for you to keep a written list of all of the prescription and nonprescription (over-the-counter) medicines you are taking, as well as any products such as vitamins, minerals, or other dietary supplements. You should bring this list with you each time you visit a doctor or if you are admitted to a hospital. It is also important information to carry with you in case of emergencies. Brand names Children's Sudafed PE Nasal Decongestant ® Lusonal ® § PediaCare Children's Decongestant ® Sudafed PE Congestion ® Suphedrin PE ®

[ Phenylephrine pronounced as (fen il ef' rin)  Phenylephrine is used to relieve nasal discomfort caused by colds, allergies, and hay fever. It is also used to relieve sinus congestion and pressure. Phenylephrine will relieve symptoms but will not treat the cause of the symptoms or speed recovery. Phenylephrine is in a class of medications called nasal decongestants. It works by reducing swelling of the blood vessels in the nasal passages. How should this medicine be used? Phenylephrine comes as a tablet, a liquid, or a dissolving strip to take by mouth. It is usually taken every 4 hours as needed. Follow the directions on your prescription label or the package label carefully, and ask your doctor or pharmacist to explain any part you do not understand. Take phenylephrine exactly as directed. Do not take more or less of it or take it more often than prescribed by your doctor or directed on the label. Phenylephrine comes alone and in combination with other medications. Ask your doctor or pharmacist for advice on which product is best for your symptoms. Check nonprescription cough and cold product labels carefully before using two or more products at the same time. These products may contain the same active ingredient(s) and taking them together could cause you to receive an overdose. This is especially important if you will be giving cough and cold medications to a child. Nonprescription cough and cold combination products, including products that contain phenylephrine, can cause serious side effects or death in young children. Do not give these products to children younger than 4 years of age. If you give these products to children 4 to 11 years of age, use caution and follow the package directions carefully. If you are giving phenylephrine or a combination product that contains phenylephrine to a child, read the package label carefully to be sure that it is the right product for a child of that age. Do not give phenylephrine products that are made for adults to children. Before you give a phenylephrine product to a child, check the package label to find out how much medication the child should receive. Give the dose that matches the child's age on the chart. Ask the child's doctor if you don't know how much medication to give the child. If you are taking the liquid, do not use a household spoon to measure your dose. Use the measuring spoon or cup that came with the medication or use a spoon made especially for measuring medication. If your symptoms do not get better within 7 days or if you have a fever, stop taking phenylephrine and call your doctor. If you are taking the dissolving strips, place one strip on your tongue and allow it to dissolve. Other uses for this medicine This medication may be prescribed for other uses; ask your doctor or pharmacist for more information. What special precautions should I follow? Before taking phenylephrine, tell your doctor and pharmacist if you are allergic to phenylephrine, any other medications, or any of the ingredients in phenylephrine preparations. do not take phenylephrine if you are taking a monoamine oxidase (MAO) inhibitor, such as isocarboxazid (Marplan), phenelzine (Nardil), selegiline (Eldepryl, Emsam, Zelapar), and tranylcypromine (Parnate), or if you have stopped taking one of these medications within the past 2 weeks. tell your doctor and pharmacist what other prescription and nonprescription medications, vitamins, nutritional supplements, and herbal products you are taking or plan to take. tell your doctor if you have or have ever had high blood pressure, diabetes, trouble urinating because of an enlarged prostate gland, or thyroid or heart disease. tell your doctor if you are pregnant, plan to become pregnant, or are breast-feeding. If you become pregnant while taking phenylephrine, call your doctor. if you are having surgery, including dental surgery, tell the doctor or dentist that you are taking phenylephrine. if you have phenylketonuria (PKU, an inherited condition in which a special diet must be followed to prevent damage to your brain that can cause severe intellectual disability), you should know that some phenylephrine products may be sweetened with aspartame, a source of phenylalanine. What special dietary instructions should I follow? Unless your doctor tells you otherwise, continue your normal diet. What should I do if I forget a dose? This medication is usually taken as needed. If your doctor has told you to take phenylephrine regularly, take the missed dose as soon as you remember it. However, if it is almost time for the next dose, skip the missed dose and continue your regular dosing schedule. Do not take a double dose to make up for a missed one. What side effects can this medication cause? Phenylephrine may cause side effects. Some side effects can be serious. If you experience any of these symptoms, stop using phenylephrine and call your doctor: nervousness dizziness sleeplessness Phenylephrine may cause other side effects. Call your doctor if you have any unusual problems while taking this medication. If you experience a serious side effect, you or your doctor may send a report to the Food and Drug Administration's (FDA) MedWatch Adverse Event Reporting program online ( http://www.fda.gov/Safety/MedWatch ) or by phone (1-800-332-1088). What should I know about storage and disposal of this medication? Keep this medication in the container it came in, tightly closed, and out of reach of children. Store it at room temperature and away from excess heat and moisture (not in the bathroom). It is important to keep all medication out of sight and reach of children as many containers (such as weekly pill minders and those for eye drops, creams, patches, and inhalers) are not child-resistant and young children can open them easily. To protect young children from poisoning, always lock safety caps and immediately place the medication in a safe location – one that is up and away and out of their sight and reach. http://www.upandaway.org Unneeded medications should be disposed of in special ways to ensure that pets, children, and other people cannot consume them. However, you should not flush this medication down the toilet. Instead, the best way to dispose of your medication is through a medicine take-back program. Talk to your pharmacist or contact your local garbage/recycling department to learn about take-back programs in your community. See the FDA's Safe Disposal of Medicines website ( http://goo.gl/c4Rm4p ) for more information if you do not have access to a take-back program. In case of emergency/overdose In case of overdose, call the poison control helpline at 1-800-222-1222. Information is also available online at https://www.poisonhelp.org/help . If the victim has collapsed, had a seizure, has trouble breathing, or can't be awakened, immediately call emergency services at 911. What other information should I know? Ask your pharmacist any questions you have about phenylephrine. It is important for you to keep a written list of all of the prescription and nonprescription (over-the-counter) medicines you are taking, as well as any products such as vitamins, minerals, or other dietary supplements. You should bring this list with you each time you visit a doctor or if you are admitted to a hospital. It is also important information to carry with you in case of emergencies. Brand names Children's Sudafed PE Nasal Decongestant ® Lusonal ® § PediaCare Children's Decongestant ® Sudafed PE Congestion ® Suphedrin PE ®

[ Aspirin pronounced as (as' pir in) To use the sharing features on this page, please enable JavaScript. Why is this medication prescribed? How should this medicine be used? Other uses for this medicine What special precautions should I follow? What special dietary instructions should I follow? What should I do if I forget a dose? What side effects can this medication cause? What should I know about storage and disposal of this medication? In case of emergency/overdose What other information should I know? Brand names Other names Why is this medication prescribed? Prescription aspirin is used to relieve the symptoms of rheumatoid arthritis (arthritis caused by swelling of the lining of the joints), osteoarthritis (arthritis caused by breakdown of the lining of the joints), systemic lupus erythematosus (condition in which the immune system attacks the joints and organs and causes pain and swelling) and certain other rheumatologic conditions (conditions in which the immune system attacks parts of the body). Nonprescription aspirin is used to reduce fever and to relieve mild to moderate pain from headaches, menstrual periods, arthritis, toothaches, and muscle aches. Nonprescription aspirin is also used to prevent heart attacks in people who have had a heart attack in the past or who have angina (chest pain that occurs when the heart does not get enough oxygen). Nonprescription aspirin is also used to reduce the risk of death in people who are experiencing or who have recently experienced a heart attack. Nonprescription aspirin is also used to prevent ischemic strokes (strokes that occur when a blood clot blocks the flow of blood to the brain) or mini-strokes (strokes that occur when the flow of blood to the brain is blocked for a short time) in people who have had this type of stroke or mini-stroke in the past. Aspirin will not prevent hemorrhagic strokes (strokes caused by bleeding in the brain). Aspirin is in a group of medications called salicylates. It works by stopping the production of certain natural substances that cause fever, pain, swelling, and blood clots. Aspirin is also available in combination with other medications such as antacids, pain relievers, and cough and cold medications. This monograph only includes information about the use of aspirin alone. If you are taking a combination product, read the information on the package or prescription label or ask your doctor or pharmacist for more information. How should this medicine be used? Prescription aspirin comes as an extended-release (long-acting) tablet. Nonprescription aspirin comes as a regular tablet, a delayed-release (releases the medication in the intestine to prevent damage to the stomach) tablet, a chewable tablet, powder, and a gum to take by mouth. Prescription aspirin is usually taken two or more times a day. Nonprescription aspirin is usually taken once a day to lower the risk of a heart attack or stroke. Nonprescription aspirin is usually taken every 4 to 6 hours as needed to treat fever or pain. Follow the directions on the package or prescription label carefully, and ask your doctor or pharmacist to explain any part you do not understand. Take aspirin exactly as directed. Do not take more or less of it or take it more often than directed by the package label or prescribed by your doctor. Swallow the extended-release tablets whole with a full glass of water. Do not break, crush, or chew them. Swallow the delayed-release tablets with a full glass of water. Chewable aspirin tablets may be chewed, crushed, or swallowed whole. Drink a full glass of water, immediately after taking these tablets. Ask a doctor before you give aspirin to your child or teenager. Aspirin may cause Reye's syndrome (a serious condition in which fat builds up on the brain, liver, and other body organs) in children and teenagers, especially if they have a virus such as chicken pox or the flu. If you have had oral surgery or surgery to remove your tonsils in the last 7 days, talk to your doctor about which types of aspirin are safe for you. Delayed-release tablets begin to work some time after they are taken. Do not take delayed-release tablets for fever or pain that must be relieved quickly. Stop taking aspirin and call your doctor if your fever lasts longer than 3 days, if your pain lasts longer than 10 days, or if the part of your body that was painful becomes red or swollen. You may have a condition that must be treated by a doctor. Other uses for this medicine Aspirin is also sometimes used to treat rheumatic fever (a serious condition that may develop after a strep throat infection and may cause swelling of the heart valves) and Kawasaki disease (an illness that may cause heart problems in children). Aspirin is also sometimes used to lower the risk of blood clots in patients who have artificial heart valves or certain other heart conditions and to prevent certain complications of pregnancy. What special precautions should I follow? Before taking aspirin, tell your doctor and pharmacist if you are allergic to aspirin, other medications for pain or fever, tartrazine dye, or any other medications. tell your doctor and pharmacist what prescription and nonprescription medications, vitamins, nutritional supplements, and herbal products you are taking or plan to take. Be sure to mention any of the following: acetazolamide (Diamox); angiotensin-converting enzyme (ACE) inhibitors such as benazepril (Lotensin), captopril (Capoten), enalapril (Vasotec), fosinopril (Monopril), lisinopril (Prinivil, Zestril), moexipril (Univasc), perindopril, (Aceon), quinapril (Accupril), ramipril (Altace), and trandolapril (Mavik); anticoagulants ('blood thinners') such as warfarin (Coumadin) and heparin; beta blockers such as atenolol (Tenormin), labetalol (Normodyne), metoprolol (Lopressor, Toprol XL), nadolol (Corgard), and propranolol (Inderal); diuretics ('water pills'); medications for diabetes or arthritis; medications for gout such as probenecid and sulfinpyrazone (Anturane); methotrexate (Trexall); other nonsteroidal anti-inflammatory drugs (NSAIDs) such as naproxen (Aleve, Naprosyn); phenytoin (Dilantin); and valproic acid (Depakene, Depakote). Your doctor may need to change the doses of your medications or monitor you more carefully for side effects. if you are taking aspirin on a regular basis to prevent heart attack or stroke, do not take ibuprofen (Advil, Motrin) to treat pain or fever without talking to your doctor. Your doctor will probably tell you to allow some time to pass between taking your daily dose of aspirin and taking a dose of ibuprofen. tell your doctor if you have or have ever had asthma, frequent stuffed or runny nose, or nasal polyps (growths on the linings of the nose). If you have these conditions, there is a risk that you will have an allergic reaction to aspirin. Your doctor may tell you that you should not take aspirin. tell your doctor if you often have heartburn, upset stomach, or stomach pain and if you have or have ever had ulcers, anemia, bleeding problems such as hemophilia, or kidney or liver disease. tell your doctor if you are pregnant, you plan to become pregnant, or if you are breast-feeding. Low dose aspirin 81-mg may be taken during pregnancy, but aspirin doses greater that 81 mg may harm the fetus and cause problems with delivery if it is taken around 20 weeks or later during pregnancy. Do not take aspirin doses greater that 81 mg (e.g., 325 mg) around or after 20 weeks of pregnancy, unless told to do so by your doctor. If you become pregnant while taking aspirin or aspirin containing medications, call your doctor. if you are having surgery, including dental surgery, tell the doctor or dentist that you are taking aspirin. if you drink three or more alcoholic drinks every day, ask your doctor if you should take aspirin or other medications for pain and fever. What special dietary instructions should I follow? Unless your doctor tells you otherwise, continue your normal diet. What should I do if I forget a dose? If your doctor has told you to take aspirin on a regular basis and you miss a dose, take the missed dose as soon as you remember it. However, if it is almost time for the next dose, skip the missed dose and continue your regular dosing schedule. Do not take a double dose to make up for a missed one. What side effects can this medication cause? Aspirin may cause side effects. Tell your doctor if any of these symptoms are severe or do not go away: nausea vomiting stomach pain heartburn Some side effects can be serious. If you experience any of the following symptoms, call your doctor immediately: hives rash swelling of the eyes, face, lips, tongue, or throat wheezing or difficulty breathing hoarseness fast heartbeat fast breathing cold, clammy skin ringing in the ears loss of hearing bloody vomit vomit that looks like coffee grounds bright red blood in stools black or tarry stools Aspirin may cause other side effects. Call your doctor if you experience any unusual problems while you are taking this medication. If you experience a serious side effect, you or your doctor may send a report to the Food and Drug Administration's (FDA) MedWatch Adverse Event Reporting program online ( http://www.fda.gov/Safety/MedWatch ) or by phone (1-800-332-1088). What should I know about storage and disposal of this medication? Keep this medication in the container it came in, tightly closed, and out of reach of children. Store it at room temperature and away from excess heat and moisture (not in the bathroom). Dispose of any tablets that have a strong vinegar smell. It is important to keep all medication out of sight and reach of children as many containers (such as weekly pill minders and those for eye drops, creams, patches, and inhalers) are not child-resistant and young children can open them easily. To protect young children from poisoning, always lock safety caps and immediately place the medication in a safe location – one that is up and away and out of their sight and reach. http://www.upandaway.org Unneeded medications should be disposed of in special ways to ensure that pets, children, and other people cannot consume them. However, you should not flush this medication down the toilet. Instead, the best way to dispose of your medication is through a medicine take-back program. Talk to your pharmacist or contact your local garbage/recycling department to learn about take-back programs in your community. See the FDA's Safe Disposal of Medicines website ( http://goo.gl/c4Rm4p ) for more information if you do not have access to a take-back program. In case of emergency/overdose In case of overdose, call the poison control helpline at 1-800-222-1222. Information is also available online at https://www.poisonhelp.org/help . If the victim has collapsed, had a seizure, has trouble breathing, or can't be awakened, immediately call emergency services at 911. Symptoms of overdose may include: burning pain in the throat or stomach vomiting decreased urination fever restlessness irritability talking a lot and saying things that do not make sense fear or nervousness dizziness double vision uncontrollable shaking of a part of the body confusion abnormally excited mood hallucination (seeing things or hearing voices that are not there) seizures drowsiness loss of consciousness for a period of time What other information should I know? Keep all appointments with your doctor. If you are taking prescription aspirin, do not let anyone else take your medication. Ask your pharmacist any questions you have about refilling your prescription. It is important for you to keep a written list of all of the prescription and nonprescription (over-the-counter) medicines you are taking, as well as any products such as vitamins, minerals, or other dietary supplements. You should bring this list with you each time you visit a doctor or if you are admitted to a hospital. It is also important information to carry with you in case of emergencies. Brand names Acuprin ® Anacin ® Aspirin Regimen Ascriptin ® Aspergum ® Aspidrox ® Aspir-Mox ® Aspirtab ® Aspir-trin ® Bayer ® Aspirin Bufferin ® Buffex ® Easprin ® Ecotrin ® Empirin ® Entaprin ® Entercote ® Fasprin ® Genacote ® Gennin-FC ® Genprin ® Halfprin ® Magnaprin ® Miniprin ® Minitabs ® Ridiprin ® Sloprin ® Uni-Buff ® Uni-Tren ® Valomag ® Zorprin ®









[ Hydrocodone Combination Products pronounced as (hye droe koe' done) To use the sharing features on this page, please enable JavaScript. Why is this medication prescribed? How should this medicine be used? Other uses for this medicine What special precautions should I follow? What special dietary instructions should I follow? What should I do if I forget a dose? What side effects can this medication cause? What should I know about storage and disposal of this medication? In case of emergency/overdose What other information should I know? Other names IMPORTANT WARNING: Hydrocodone combination products may be habit forming. Take your hydrocodone combination product exactly as directed. Do not take more of it, take it more often, or take it in a different way than directed by your doctor. While taking hydrocodone combination products, discuss with your healthcare provider your pain treatment goals, length of treatment, and other ways to manage your pain. Tell your doctor if you or anyone in your family drinks or has ever drunk large amounts of alcohol, uses or has ever used street drugs, or has overused prescription medications, or has had an overdose, or if you have or have ever had depression or another mental illness. There is a greater risk that you will overuse a hydrocodone combination product if you have or have ever had any of these conditions. Talk to your healthcare provider immediately and ask for guidance if you think that you have an opioid addiction or call the U.S. Substance Abuse and Mental Health Services Administration (SAMHSA) National Helpline at 1-800-662-HELP. Hydrocodone may cause serious or life-threatening breathing problems, especially during the first 24 to 72 hours of your treatment and any time your dose is increased. Your doctor will monitor you carefully during your treatment. Tell your doctor if you have or have ever had slowed breathing or asthma. Your doctor will probably tell you not to take a hydrocodone combination product. Also tell your doctor if you have or have ever had lung disease such as chronic obstructive pulmonary disease (COPD; a group of diseases that affect the lungs and airways), a head injury, a brain tumor, or any condition that increases the amount of pressure in your brain. The risk that you will develop breathing problems may be higher if you are an older adult or are weak or malnourished due to disease. If you experience any of the following symptoms, call your doctor immediately or get emergency medical treatment: slowed breathing, long pauses between breaths, or shortness of breath. When a hydrocodone combination product was used in children, serious and life-threatening breathing problems such as slow or difficulty breathing and deaths were reported. Hydrocodone should never be used to treat pain or a cough in children younger than 18 years of age. If your child is currently prescribed a cough and cold medicine containing hydrocodone, talk to your child's doctor about other treatments. Do not allow anyone else to take your medication. Hydrocodone combination products may harm or cause death to other people who take your medication, especially children. Keep hydrocodone combination products in a safe place so that no one else can take it accidentally or on purpose. Be especially careful to keep hydrocodone out of the reach of children. Keep track of how much hydrocodone combination product is left so you will know if any medication is missing.ª Taking certain medications with a hydrocodone combination product may increase the risk of serious or life-threatening breathing problems, sedation, or coma. Tell your doctor and pharmacist what prescription and nonprescription medications, vitamins, nutritional supplements, and herbal products you are taking or plan to take. Your doctor may need to change the dosages of your medications and will monitor you carefully. If you take a hydrocodone combination product with other medications and you develop any of the following symptoms, call your doctor immediately or seek emergency medical care: unusual dizziness, lightheadedness, extreme sleepiness, slowed or difficult breathing, or unresponsiveness. Be sure that your caregiver or family members know which symptoms may be serious so they can call the doctor or emergency medical care if you are unable to seek treatment on your own. Drinking alcohol, taking prescription or nonprescription medications that contain alcohol, or using street drugs during your treatment with a hydrocodone combination product increases the risk that you will experience these serious, life-threatening side effects. Do not drink alcohol, take prescription or nonprescription medications that contain alcohol, or use street drugs during your treatment. Tell your doctor if you are pregnant or plan to become pregnant. If you take a hydrocodone combination product regularly during your pregnancy, your baby may experience life-threatening withdrawal symptoms after birth. Tell your baby's doctor right away if your baby experiences any of the following symptoms: irritability, hyperactivity, abnormal sleep, high-pitched cry, uncontrollable shaking of a part of the body, vomiting, diarrhea, or failure to gain weight. Your doctor or pharmacist will give you the manufacturer's patient information sheet (Medication Guide) when you begin treatment with a hydrocodone combination product and each time you refill your prescription. Read the information carefully and ask your doctor or pharmacist if you have any questions. You can also visit the Food and Drug Administration (FDA) website ( http://www.fda.gov/Drugs/DrugSafety/ucm085729.htm ) or the manufacturer's website to obtain the Medication Guide. Talk to your doctor about the risks of taking a hydrocodone combination product. Why is this medication prescribed? Hydrocodone is available in combination with other ingredients, and different combination products are prescribed for different uses. Some hydrocodone combination products are used to relieve severe pain (pain that begins suddenly, has a specific cause, and is expected to go away when the cause of the pain is healed) in people who are expected to need an opioid pain medication and whose symptoms cannot be controlled by the use of alternative pain medications. Other hydrocodone combination products are used to relieve cough in adults. Hydrocodone is in a class of medications called opiate (narcotic) analgesics and in a class of medications called antitussives. Hydrocodone relieves pain by changing the way the brain and nervous system respond to pain. Hydrocodone relieves cough by decreasing activity in the part of the brain that causes coughing. You will take hydrocodone in combination with at least one other medication, but this monograph only provides information about hydrocodone. Be sure to read information about the other ingredients in the hydrocodone product you are taking. Ask your doctor or pharmacist if you have any questions. How should this medicine be used? Hydrocodone combination products come as a tablet, a syrup, a solution (clear liquid), and an extended-release (long-acting) suspension (liquid) to take by mouth. The tablet, syrup, and solution are usually taken every 4 to 6 hours as needed. The extended-release suspension is usually taken every 12 hours as needed. Follow the directions on your prescription label carefully, and ask your doctor or pharmacist to explain any part you do not understand. Shake the extended-release suspension well before each use to mix the medication evenly. Do not mix the extended-release suspension with other medications or with other liquids such as water. If you will be using hydrocodone combination solution, syrup, or extended-release suspension, do not use a household teaspoon to measure your dose. Household teaspoons are not accurate measuring devices, and you may receive too much medication or not enough medication if you measure your dose with a household teaspoon. Instead, use a properly marked measuring device such as a dropper, medicine spoon, or oral syringe. Ask your doctor or pharmacist if you need help getting or using a measuring device. Your doctor may adjust your dose of hydrocodone during your treatment, depending on how well your pain is controlled and on the side effects that you experience. Talk to your doctor about how you are feeling during your treatment with a hydrocodone combination product. Tell your doctor if you feel that your pain is not controlled or if your pain increases, becomes worse, or if you have new pain or an increased sensitivity to pain during your treatment with a hydrocodone combination product. Do not take more of it or take it more often than prescribed by your doctor. You may receive a dangerous overdose if you take more medication or take your medication more often than prescribed by your doctor. Do not stop taking a hydrocodone combination product without talking to your doctor. If you suddenly stop taking a hydrocodone combination product, you may experience withdrawal symptoms such as restlessness, teary eyes, runny nose, yawning, sweating, chills, muscle pain, widened pupils (black circles in the middle of the eyes), irritability, anxiety, back or joint pain, weakness, stomach cramps, difficulty falling asleep or staying asleep, nausea, loss of appetite, vomiting, diarrhea, fast breathing, or fast heartbeat. Your doctor will probably decrease your dose gradually. Other uses for this medicine This medication may be prescribed for other uses; ask your doctor or pharmacist for more information. What special precautions should I follow? Before taking a hydrocodone combination product, tell your doctor and pharmacist if you are allergic to hydrocodone, the other medication in the hydrocodone combination product you are taking, any other medications, or any of the ingredients in the hydrocodone combination product you are taking. Ask your pharmacist or check the manufacturer's information for the patient for a list of the ingredients. tell your doctor or pharmacist if you are taking the following medications or have stopped taking them within the past two weeks: isocarboxazid (Marplan), linezolid (Zyvox), methylene blue, phenelzine (Nardil), selegiline (Emsam, Zelapar), or tranylcypromine (Parnate). The following nonprescription or herbal products may interact with hydrocodone combination products: St. John's wort and tryptophan. Be sure to let your doctor and pharmacist know that you are taking these medications before you start taking a hydrocodone combination product. Do not start these medications while taking a hydrocodone combination product without discussing it with your healthcare provider. tell your doctor if you have or have ever had any of the conditions mentioned in the IMPORTANT WARNING section, a blockage or narrowing of your stomach or intestines, or paralytic ileus (condition in which digested food does not move through the intestines). Your doctor may tell you not to take a hydrocodone combination product. tell your doctor if you have or have ever had difficulty urinating; adrenal insufficiency (condition in which the adrenal glands do not produce enough of certain hormones needed for important body functions); diabetes; seizures; or thyroid, intestinal, liver, pancreas, gallbladder, or kidney disease. tell your doctor if you are breastfeeding. You should not breastfeed while you are taking a hydrocodone combination product. Hydrocodone combination products can cause shallow breathing, difficulty or noisy breathing, confusion, more than usual sleepiness, trouble breastfeeding, or limpness in breastfed infants. you should know that this medication may decrease fertility in men and women. Talk to your doctor about the risks of taking a hydrocodone combination product. if you are having surgery, including dental surgery, tell the doctor or dentist that you are taking a hydrocodone combination product. you should know that hydrocodone combination products may make you drowsy. Do not drive a car or operate machinery until you know how this medication affects you. you should know that hydrocodone combination products may cause dizziness, lightheadedness, and fainting when you get up too quickly from a lying position. This is more common when you first start taking a hydrocodone combination product. To avoid this problem, get out of bed slowly, resting your feet on the floor for a few minutes before standing up. you should know that hydrocodone combination products may cause constipation. Talk to your doctor about changing your diet and using other medications to treat or prevent constipation. What special dietary instructions should I follow? Unless your doctor tells you otherwise, continue your normal diet. What should I do if I forget a dose? This medication is usually taken as needed. If your doctor has told you to take a hydrocodone combination product regularly, skip the missed dose and continue your regular dosing schedule. Do not take a double dose to make up for a missed one. What side effects can this medication cause? Hydrocodone combination products may cause side effects. Tell your doctor if any of these symptoms are severe or do not go away: stomach pain headache drowsiness lightheadedness fuzzy thinking anxiety abnormally happy or abnormally sad mood dry mouth Some side effects can be serious. If you experience any of these symptoms or those listed in the IMPORTANT WARNING section, call your doctor immediately or get emergency medical treatment: slowed or irregular breathing agitation, hallucinations (seeing things or hearing voices that do not exist), fever, sweating, confusion, fast heartbeat, shivering, severe muscle stiffness or twitching, loss of coordination, or diarrhea nausea, vomiting, loss of appetite, weakness, or dizziness inability to get or keep an erection irregular menstruation decreased sexual desire chest pain fast heartbeat rash; hives; hoarseness; difficulty breathing or swallowing; or swelling of the face, mouth, tongue or throat difficulty urinating Hydrocodone combination products may cause other side effects. Call your doctor if you have any unusual problems while taking this medication. If you experience a serious side effect, you or your doctor may send a report to the Food and Drug Administration's (FDA) MedWatch Adverse Event Reporting program online ( http://www.fda.gov/Safety/MedWatch ) or by phone (1-800-332-1088). What should I know about storage and disposal of this medication? Keep this medication in the container it came in, tightly closed, and out of reach of children, and in a location that is not easily accessible by others, including visitors to the home. Store it at room temperature and away from excess heat and moisture (not in the bathroom). You must immediately dispose of any medication that is outdated or no longer needed through a medicine take-back program. If you do not have a take-back program nearby or one that you can access promptly, flush any hydrocodone combination products that are outdated or no longer needed down the toilet so that others will not take it. Talk to your pharmacist about the proper disposal of your medication. It is important to keep all medication out of sight and reach of children as many containers (such as weekly pill minders and those for eye drops, creams, patches, and inhalers) are not child-resistant and young children can open them easily. To protect young children from poisoning, always lock safety caps and immediately place the medication in a safe location – one that is up and away and out of their sight and reach. http://www.upandaway.org In case of emergency/overdose In case of overdose, call the poison control helpline at 1-800-222-1222. Information is also available online at https://www.poisonhelp.org/help . If the victim has collapsed, had a seizure, has trouble breathing, or can't be awakened, immediately call emergency services at 911. While taking a hydrocodone combination product, you should talk to your doctor about having a rescue medication called naloxone readily available (e.g., home, office). Naloxone is used to reverse the life-threatening effects of an overdose. It works by blocking the effects of opiates to relieve dangerous symptoms caused by high levels of opiates in the blood. Your doctor may also prescribe you naloxone if you are living in a household where there are small children or someone who has abused street or prescription drugs. You should make sure that you and your family members, caregivers, or the people who spend time with you know how to recognize an overdose, how to use naloxone, and what to do until emergency medical help arrives. Your doctor or pharmacist will show you and your family members how to use the medication. Ask your pharmacist for the instructions or visit the manufacturer's website to get the instructions. If symptoms of an overdose occur, a friend or family member should give the first dose of naloxone, call 911 immediately, and stay with you and watch you closely until emergency medical help arrives. Your symptoms may return within a few minutes after you receive naloxone. If your symptoms return, the person should give you another dose of naloxone. Additional doses may be given every 2 to 3 minutes, if symptoms return before medical help arrives. Symptoms of overdose may include the following: narrowed or widened pupils (dark circles in the middle of the eyes) slow, shallow, or stopped breathing difficulty breathing slowed or stopped heartbeat cold, clammy, or blue skin excessive sleepiness unable to respond or wake up unusual snoring What other information should I know? Keep all appointments with your doctor and laboratory. Your doctor will order certain lab tests to check your body's response to a hydrocodone combination product. Before having any laboratory test (especially those that involve methylene blue), tell your doctor and the laboratory personnel that you are taking a hydrocodone combination product. This prescription is not refillable. If you continue to have pain or a cough after you finish taking your medication, call your doctor. It is important for you to keep a written list of all of the prescription and nonprescription (over-the-counter) medicines you are taking, as well as any products such as vitamins, minerals, or other dietary supplements. You should bring this list with you each time you visit a doctor or if you are admitted to a hospital. It is also important information to carry with you in case of emergencies.





[ Pseudoephedrine pronounced as (soo doe e fed' rin)  Pseudoephedrine is used to relieve nasal congestion caused by colds, allergies, and hay fever. It is also used to temporarily relieve sinus congestion and pressure. Pseudoephedrine will relieve symptoms but will not treat the cause of the symptoms or speed recovery. Pseudoephedrine is in a class of medications called nasal decongestants. It works by causing narrowing of the blood vessels in the nasal passages. How should this medicine be used? Pseudoephedrine comes as a regular tablet, a 12-hour extended-release (long-acting) tablet, a 24-hour extended-release tablet, and a solution (liquid) to be taken by mouth. The regular tablets and liquid are usually taken every 4 to 6 hours. The 12-hour extended-release tablets usually are taken every 12 hours, and you should not take more than two doses in a 24-hour period. The 24-hour extended-release tablets usually are taken once a day, and you should not take more than one dose in a 24-hour period. To help prevent trouble sleeping, take the last dose of the day several hours before bedtime. Follow the directions on the package label or on your prescription label carefully, and ask your doctor or pharmacist to explain any part you do not understand. Take pseudoephedrine exactly as directed. Do not take more or less of it or take it more often than prescribed by your doctor or directed on the label. Pseudoephedrine comes alone and in combination with other medications. Ask your doctor or pharmacist for advice on which product is best for your symptoms. Check nonprescription cough and cold product labels carefully before using 2 or more products at the same time. These products may contain the same active ingredient(s) and taking them together could cause you to receive an overdose. This is especially important if you will be giving cough and cold medications to a child. Nonprescription cough and cold combination products, including products that contain pseudoephedrine, can cause serious side effects or death in young children. Do not give nonprescription pseudoephedrine products to children younger than 4 years of age. If you give these products to children 4-11 years of age, use caution and follow the package directions carefully. Do not give pseudoephedrine extended-release tablets to children younger than 12 years of age. If you are giving pseudoephedrine or a combination product that contains pseudoephedrine to a child, read the package label carefully to be sure that it is the right product for a child of that age. Do not give pseudoephedrine products that are made for adults to children. Before you give a pseudoephedrine product to a child, check the package label to find out how much medication the child should receive. Give the dose that matches the child's age on the chart. Ask the child's doctor if you don't know how much medication to give the child. If you are taking the liquid, do not use a household spoon to measure your dose. Use the measuring spoon or cup that came with the medication or use a spoon made especially for measuring medication. If your symptoms do not get better within 7 days or if you have a fever, stop taking pseudoephedrine and call your doctor. Swallow the extended-release tablets whole; do not break, crush, or chew them. Other uses for this medicine This medication is also sometimes used to prevent ear pain and blockage caused by pressure changes during air travel or underwater diving. Talk to your doctor or pharmacist for more information. This medication is sometimes prescribed for other uses; ask your doctor or pharmacist for more information. What special precautions should I follow? Before taking pseudoephedrine, tell your doctor and pharmacist if you are allergic to pseudoephedrine, any other medications, or any of the inactive ingredients in the pseudoephedrine product you plan to take. Check the package label for a list of the ingredients. do not take pseudoephedrine if you are taking a monoamine oxidase (MAO) inhibitor such as isocarboxazid (Marplan), phenelzine (Nardil), selegiline (Eldepryl, Emsam, Zelapar), and tranylcypromine (Parnate), or if you have stopped taking one of these medications within the past 2 weeks. tell your doctor and pharmacist what prescription and nonprescription medications, vitamins, nutritional supplements, and herbal products you are taking or plan to take. Be sure to mention medications for diet or appetite control, asthma, colds, or high blood pressure. tell your doctor if you have or have ever had high blood pressure, glaucoma (a condition in which increased pressure in the eye can lead to gradual loss of vision), diabetes, difficulty urinating (due to an enlarged prostate gland), or thyroid or heart disease. If you plan to take the 24-hour extended-release tablets, tell your doctor if you have had a narrowing or blockage of your digestive system. tell your doctor if you are pregnant, plan to become pregnant, or are breast-feeding. If you become pregnant while taking pseudoephedrine, call your doctor. if you are having surgery, including dental surgery, tell the doctor or dentist that you are taking pseudoephedrine. What special dietary instructions should I follow? Foods and drinks that contain large amounts of caffeine can make the side effects of pseudoephedrine worse. What should I do if I forget a dose? This medication is usually taken as needed. If your doctor has told you to take pseudoephedrine regularly, take the missed dose as soon as you remember it. However, if it is almost time for the next dose, skip the missed dose and continue your regular dosing schedule. Do not take a double dose to make up for a missed one. What side effects can this medication cause? Pseudoephedrine may cause side effects. Tell your doctor if any of these symptoms are severe or do not go away: restlessness nausea vomiting weakness headache Some side effects can be serious. If you experience any of the following symptoms, call your doctor immediately: nervousness dizziness difficulty sleeping stomach pain difficulty breathing fast, pounding, or irregular heartbeat Pseudoephedrine may cause other side effects. Call your doctor if you have any unusual problems while you are taking this medication. If you experience a serious side effect, you or your doctor may send a report to the Food and Drug Administration's (FDA) MedWatch Adverse Event Reporting program online ( http://www.fda.gov/Safety/MedWatch ) or by phone (1-800-332-1088). What should I know about storage and disposal of this medication? Keep this medication in the container it came in, tightly closed, and out of reach of children. Store it at room temperature and away from excess heat and moisture (not in the bathroom). Unneeded medications should be disposed of in special ways to ensure that pets, children, and other people cannot consume them. However, you should not flush this medication down the toilet. Instead, the best way to dispose of your medication is through a medicine take-back program. Talk to your pharmacist or contact your local garbage/recycling department to learn about take-back programs in your community. See the FDA's Safe Disposal of Medicines website ( http://goo.gl/c4Rm4p ) for more information if you do not have access to a take-back program. It is important to keep all medication out of sight and reach of children as many containers (such as weekly pill minders and those for eye drops, creams, patches, and inhalers) are not child-resistant and young children can open them easily. To protect young children from poisoning, always lock safety caps and immediately place the medication in a safe location – one that is up and away and out of their sight and reach. http://www.upandaway.org In case of emergency/overdose In case of overdose, call the poison control helpline at 1-800-222-1222. Information is also available online at https://www.poisonhelp.org/help . If the victim has collapsed, had a seizure, has trouble breathing, or can't be awakened, immediately call emergency services at 911. What other information should I know? If you are taking the 24-hour extended-release tablets, you may notice something that looks like a tablet in your stool. This is just the empty tablet shell, and this does not mean that you did not get your complete dose of medication. Ask your pharmacist any questions you have about pseudoephedrine. It is important for you to keep a written list of all of the prescription and nonprescription (over-the-counter) medicines you are taking, as well as any products such as vitamins, minerals, or other dietary supplements. You should bring this list with you each time you visit a doctor or if you are admitted to a hospital. It is also important information to carry with you in case of emergencies. Brand names Afrinol ® ¶ Cenafed ® ¶ Children's Sudafed Nasal Decongestant ® Congestaclear ® ¶ Efidac ® ¶ Myfedrine ® ¶ Pseudocot ® ¶ Ridafed ® ¶ Silfedrine ® Sudafed 12/24 Hour ® Sudafed Congestion ® Sudodrin ® ¶ SudoGest ® Sudrine ® ¶ Superfed ® ¶ Suphedrin ® Allegra-D® (as a combination product containing Fexofenadine, Pseudoephedrine)

[ Chlorpheniramine pronounced as (klor fen ir' a meen)  Chlorpheniramine relieves red, itchy, watery eyes; sneezing; itchy nose or throat; and runny nose caused by allergies, hay fever, and the common cold. Chlorpheniramine helps control the symptoms of cold or allergies but will not treat the cause of the symptoms or speed recovery. Chlorpheniramine is in a class of medications called antihistamines. It works by blocking the action of histamine, a substance in the body that causes allergic symptoms. How should this medicine be used? Chlorpheniramine comes as a tablet, a capsule, an extended-release (long-acting) tablet and capsule, a chewable tablet, and a liquid to take by mouth. The regular capsules and tablets, chewable tablets, and liquid are usually taken every 4 to 6 hours as needed. The extended-release (long-acting) tablets and capsules are usually taken twice a day in the morning and evening as needed. Follow the directions on your prescription label carefully, and ask your doctor or pharmacist to explain any part you do not understand. Take chlorpheniramine exactly as directed. Do not take more or less of it or take it more often than prescribed by your doctor. Chlorpheniramine comes alone and in combination with fever and pain reducers, expectorants, cough suppressants, and decongestants. Ask your doctor or pharmacist for advice on which product is best for your symptoms. Check nonprescription cough and cold product labels carefully before using 2 or more products at the same time. These products may contain the same active ingredient(s) and taking them together could cause you to receive an overdose.This is especially important if you will be giving cough and cold medications to a child. Nonprescription cough and cold combination products, including products that contain chlorpheniramine, can cause serious side effects or death in young children. Do not give these products to children younger than 4 years of age. If you give these products to children 4-11 years of age, use caution and follow the package directions carefully. If you are giving chlorpheniramine or a combination product that contains chlorpheniramine to a child, read the package label carefully to be sure that it is the right product for a child of that age. Do not give chlorpheniramine products that are made for adults to children. Before you give a chlorpheniramine product to a child, check the package label to find out how much medication the child should receive. Give the dose that matches the child's age on the chart. Ask the child's doctor if you don't know how much medication to give the child. If you are taking the liquid, do not use a household spoon to measure your dose. Use the measuring spoon or cup that came with the medication or use a spoon made especially for measuring medication. If you are using the extended-release tablets or capsules, swallow them whole. Do not break, crush, chew, or open them. Other uses for this medicine This medication is sometimes prescribed for other uses; ask your doctor or pharmacist for more information. What special precautions should I follow? Before taking chlorpheniramine, tell your doctor and pharmacist if you are allergic to chlorpheniramine, any other medications, or any of the ingredients in the chlorpheniramine product you plan to use. Check the package label for a list of the ingredients. tell your doctor and pharmacist what prescription and nonprescription medications, vitamins, nutritional supplements, and herbal products you are taking or plan to take. Be sure to mention any of the following: other medications for colds, hay fever, or allergies; medications for anxiety, depression, or seizures; muscle relaxants; narcotic medications for pain; sedatives; sleeping pills; and tranquilizers. tell your doctor if you have or have ever had asthma, emphysema, chronic bronchitis, or other types of lung disease; glaucoma (a condition in which increased pressure in the eye can lead to gradual loss of vision); ulcers; diabetes; difficulty urinating (due to an enlarged prostate gland); heart disease; high blood pressure; seizures; or an overactive thyroid gland. tell your doctor if you are pregnant, plan to become pregnant, or are breast-feeding. If you become pregnant while taking chlorpheniramine, call your doctor. if you are having surgery, including dental surgery, tell the doctor or dentist that you are taking chlorpheniramine. you should know that this medication may make you drowsy. Do not drive a car or operate machinery until you know how this medication affects you. ask your doctor about the safe use of alcohol while you are taking chlorpheniramine. Alcohol can make the side effects of chlorpheniramine worse. talk to your doctor about the risks and benefits of taking chlorpheniramine if you are 65 years of age or older. Older adults should not usually take chlorpheniramine because it is not as safe or effective as other medications that can be used to treat the same condition. What special dietary instructions should I follow? Unless your doctor tells you otherwise, continue your normal diet. What should I do if I forget a dose? Chlorpheniramine is usually taken as needed. If your doctor has told you to take chlorpheniramine regularly, take the missed dose as soon as you remember it. However, if it is almost time for the next dose, skip the missed dose and continue your regular dosing schedule. Do not take a double dose to make up for a missed one. What side effects can this medication cause? Chlorpheniramine may cause side effects. Tell your doctor if any of these symptoms are severe or do not go away: drowsiness dry mouth, nose, and throat nausea vomiting loss of appetite constipation headache increased chest congestion Some side effects can be serious. If you experience any of the following symptoms, call your doctor immediately: vision problems difficulty urinating If you experience a serious side effect, you or your doctor may send a report to the Food and Drug Administration's (FDA) MedWatch Adverse Event Reporting program online ( http://www.fda.gov/Safety/MedWatch ) or by phone (1-800-332-1088). What should I know about storage and disposal of this medication? Keep this medication in the container it came in, tightly closed, and out of reach of children. Store it at room temperature and away from excess heat and moisture (not in the bathroom). It is important to keep all medication out of sight and reach of children as many containers (such as weekly pill minders and those for eye drops, creams, patches, and inhalers) are not child-resistant and young children can open them easily. To protect young children from poisoning, always lock safety caps and immediately place the medication in a safe location – one that is up and away and out of their sight and reach. http://www.upandaway.org Unneeded medications should be disposed of in special ways to ensure that pets, children, and other people cannot consume them. However, you should not flush this medication down the toilet. Instead, the best way to dispose of your medication is through a medicine take-back program. Talk to your pharmacist or contact your local garbage/recycling department to learn about take-back programs in your community. See the FDA's Safe Disposal of Medicines website ( http://goo.gl/c4Rm4p ) for more information if you do not have access to a take-back program. In case of emergency/overdose In case of overdose, call the poison control helpline at 1-800-222-1222. Information is also available online at https://www.poisonhelp.org/help . If the victim has collapsed, had a seizure, has trouble breathing, or can't be awakened, immediately call emergency services at 911. What other information should I know? Ask your pharmacist any questions you have about chlorpheniramine. It is important for you to keep a written list of all of the prescription and nonprescription (over-the-counter) medicines you are taking, as well as any products such as vitamins, minerals, or other dietary supplements. You should bring this list with you each time you visit a doctor or if you are admitted to a hospital. It is also important information to carry with you in case of emergencies. Brand names Aller-Chlor ® Aller-Chlor ® Syrup Chlo-Amine ® Chlor-Trimeton ® 12 Hour Allergy Chlor-Trimeton ® 4 Hour Allergy Chlor-Trimeton ® 8 Hour Allergy Chlor-Trimeton ® Allergy Syrup Polaramine ® Polaramine ® Repetabs ® Polaramine ® Syrup Teldrin ® Allergy

[ Chlorpheniramine pronounced as (klor fen ir' a meen)  Chlorpheniramine relieves red, itchy, watery eyes; sneezing; itchy nose or throat; and runny nose caused by allergies, hay fever, and the common cold. Chlorpheniramine helps control the symptoms of cold or allergies but will not treat the cause of the symptoms or speed recovery. Chlorpheniramine is in a class of medications called antihistamines. It works by blocking the action of histamine, a substance in the body that causes allergic symptoms. How should this medicine be used? Chlorpheniramine comes as a tablet, a capsule, an extended-release (long-acting) tablet and capsule, a chewable tablet, and a liquid to take by mouth. The regular capsules and tablets, chewable tablets, and liquid are usually taken every 4 to 6 hours as needed. The extended-release (long-acting) tablets and capsules are usually taken twice a day in the morning and evening as needed. Follow the directions on your prescription label carefully, and ask your doctor or pharmacist to explain any part you do not understand. Take chlorpheniramine exactly as directed. Do not take more or less of it or take it more often than prescribed by your doctor. Chlorpheniramine comes alone and in combination with fever and pain reducers, expectorants, cough suppressants, and decongestants. Ask your doctor or pharmacist for advice on which product is best for your symptoms. Check nonprescription cough and cold product labels carefully before using 2 or more products at the same time. These products may contain the same active ingredient(s) and taking them together could cause you to receive an overdose.This is especially important if you will be giving cough and cold medications to a child. Nonprescription cough and cold combination products, including products that contain chlorpheniramine, can cause serious side effects or death in young children. Do not give these products to children younger than 4 years of age. If you give these products to children 4-11 years of age, use caution and follow the package directions carefully. If you are giving chlorpheniramine or a combination product that contains chlorpheniramine to a child, read the package label carefully to be sure that it is the right product for a child of that age. Do not give chlorpheniramine products that are made for adults to children. Before you give a chlorpheniramine product to a child, check the package label to find out how much medication the child should receive. Give the dose that matches the child's age on the chart. Ask the child's doctor if you don't know how much medication to give the child. If you are taking the liquid, do not use a household spoon to measure your dose. Use the measuring spoon or cup that came with the medication or use a spoon made especially for measuring medication. If you are using the extended-release tablets or capsules, swallow them whole. Do not break, crush, chew, or open them. Other uses for this medicine This medication is sometimes prescribed for other uses; ask your doctor or pharmacist for more information. What special precautions should I follow? Before taking chlorpheniramine, tell your doctor and pharmacist if you are allergic to chlorpheniramine, any other medications, or any of the ingredients in the chlorpheniramine product you plan to use. Check the package label for a list of the ingredients. tell your doctor and pharmacist what prescription and nonprescription medications, vitamins, nutritional supplements, and herbal products you are taking or plan to take. Be sure to mention any of the following: other medications for colds, hay fever, or allergies; medications for anxiety, depression, or seizures; muscle relaxants; narcotic medications for pain; sedatives; sleeping pills; and tranquilizers. tell your doctor if you have or have ever had asthma, emphysema, chronic bronchitis, or other types of lung disease; glaucoma (a condition in which increased pressure in the eye can lead to gradual loss of vision); ulcers; diabetes; difficulty urinating (due to an enlarged prostate gland); heart disease; high blood pressure; seizures; or an overactive thyroid gland. tell your doctor if you are pregnant, plan to become pregnant, or are breast-feeding. If you become pregnant while taking chlorpheniramine, call your doctor. if you are having surgery, including dental surgery, tell the doctor or dentist that you are taking chlorpheniramine. you should know that this medication may make you drowsy. Do not drive a car or operate machinery until you know how this medication affects you. ask your doctor about the safe use of alcohol while you are taking chlorpheniramine. Alcohol can make the side effects of chlorpheniramine worse. talk to your doctor about the risks and benefits of taking chlorpheniramine if you are 65 years of age or older. Older adults should not usually take chlorpheniramine because it is not as safe or effective as other medications that can be used to treat the same condition. What special dietary instructions should I follow? Unless your doctor tells you otherwise, continue your normal diet. What should I do if I forget a dose? Chlorpheniramine is usually taken as needed. If your doctor has told you to take chlorpheniramine regularly, take the missed dose as soon as you remember it. However, if it is almost time for the next dose, skip the missed dose and continue your regular dosing schedule. Do not take a double dose to make up for a missed one. What side effects can this medication cause? Chlorpheniramine may cause side effects. Tell your doctor if any of these symptoms are severe or do not go away: drowsiness dry mouth, nose, and throat nausea vomiting loss of appetite constipation headache increased chest congestion Some side effects can be serious. If you experience any of the following symptoms, call your doctor immediately: vision problems difficulty urinating If you experience a serious side effect, you or your doctor may send a report to the Food and Drug Administration's (FDA) MedWatch Adverse Event Reporting program online ( http://www.fda.gov/Safety/MedWatch ) or by phone (1-800-332-1088). What should I know about storage and disposal of this medication? Keep this medication in the container it came in, tightly closed, and out of reach of children. Store it at room temperature and away from excess heat and moisture (not in the bathroom). It is important to keep all medication out of sight and reach of children as many containers (such as weekly pill minders and those for eye drops, creams, patches, and inhalers) are not child-resistant and young children can open them easily. To protect young children from poisoning, always lock safety caps and immediately place the medication in a safe location – one that is up and away and out of their sight and reach. http://www.upandaway.org Unneeded medications should be disposed of in special ways to ensure that pets, children, and other people cannot consume them. However, you should not flush this medication down the toilet. Instead, the best way to dispose of your medication is through a medicine take-back program. Talk to your pharmacist or contact your local garbage/recycling department to learn about take-back programs in your community. See the FDA's Safe Disposal of Medicines website ( http://goo.gl/c4Rm4p ) for more information if you do not have access to a take-back program. In case of emergency/overdose In case of overdose, call the poison control helpline at 1-800-222-1222. Information is also available online at https://www.poisonhelp.org/help . If the victim has collapsed, had a seizure, has trouble breathing, or can't be awakened, immediately call emergency services at 911. What other information should I know? Ask your pharmacist any questions you have about chlorpheniramine. It is important for you to keep a written list of all of the prescription and nonprescription (over-the-counter) medicines you are taking, as well as any products such as vitamins, minerals, or other dietary supplements. You should bring this list with you each time you visit a doctor or if you are admitted to a hospital. It is also important information to carry with you in case of emergencies. Brand names Aller-Chlor ® Aller-Chlor ® Syrup Chlo-Amine ® Chlor-Trimeton ® 12 Hour Allergy Chlor-Trimeton ® 4 Hour Allergy Chlor-Trimeton ® 8 Hour Allergy Chlor-Trimeton ® Allergy Syrup Polaramine ® Polaramine ® Repetabs ® Polaramine ® Syrup Teldrin ® Allergy

[ Cetirizine pronounced as (se ti' ra zeen)  Cetirizine is used to temporarily relieve the symptoms of hay fever (allergy to pollen, dust, or other substances in the air) and allergy to other substances (such as dust mites, animal dander, cockroaches, and molds). These symptoms include sneezing; runny nose; itchy, red, watery eyes; and itchy nose or throat. Cetirizine is also used to treat itching and redness caused by hives. However, cetirizine does not prevent hives or other allergic skin reactions. Cetirizine is in a class of medications called antihistamines. It works by blocking the action of histamine, a substance in the body that causes allergic symptoms. Cetirizine is also available in combination with pseudoephedrine (Sudafed, others). This monograph only includes information about the use of cetirizine alone. If you are taking the cetirizine and pseudoephedrine combination product, read the information on the package label or ask your doctor or pharmacist for more information. How should this medicine be used? Cetirizine comes as a tablet, a chewable tablet, an extended release tablet, and a syrup (liquid) to take by mouth. It is usually taken once a day with or without food. Take cetirizine at around the same time every day. Follow the directions on your package label carefully, and ask your doctor or pharmacist to explain any part you do not understand. Take cetirizine exactly as directed. Do not take more or less of it or take it more often than directed on the package label or as recommended by your doctor. Do not use cetirizine to treat hives that are bruised or blistered, that are an unusual color, or that do not itch. Call your doctor if you have these types of hives. Stop taking cetirizine and call your doctor if your hives do not improve during the first 3 days of your treatment or if your hives last longer than 6 weeks. If you do not know the cause of your hives, call your doctor. If you are taking cetirizine to treat hives, and you develop any of the following symptoms, get emergency medical help right away: difficulty swallowing, speaking, or breathing; swelling in and around the mouth or swelling of the tongue; wheezing; drooling; dizziness; or loss of consciousness. These may be symptoms of a life-threatening allergic reaction called anaphylaxis. If your doctor suspects that you may experience anaphylaxis with your hives, he may prescribe an epinephrine injector (EpiPen). Do not use cetirizine in place of the epinephrine injector. Other uses for this medicine This medication may be prescribed for other uses; ask your doctor or pharmacist for more information. What special precautions should I follow? Before taking cetirizine, tell your doctor and pharmacist if you are allergic to cetirizine, hydroxyzine (Vistaril), or any other medications. tell your doctor and pharmacist what prescription and nonprescription medications, vitamins, nutritional supplements, and herbal products you are taking or plan to take. Be sure to mention any of the following: antidepressants, medications for anxiety, medications for mental illness, medications for seizures, other medications for cold and allergy, sedatives, sleeping pills, tranquilizers, and theophylline (Theo-24, Theolair). Your doctor may need to change the doses of your medications or monitor you carefully for side effects. tell your doctor if you have or have ever had kidney or liver disease. tell your doctor if you are pregnant, plan to become pregnant, or are breast-feeding. If you become pregnant while taking cetirizine, call your doctor. you should know that cetirizine may make you drowsy. Do not drive a car or operate machinery until you know how this medication affects you. remember that alcohol can add to the drowsiness caused by this medication. Avoid drinking alcoholic beverages while taking this medication. What special dietary instructions should I follow? Unless your doctor tells you otherwise, continue your normal diet. What should I do if I forget a dose? Take the missed dose as soon as you remember it. However, if it is almost time for the next dose, skip the missed dose and continue your regular dosing schedule. Do not take a double dose to make up for a missed one. What side effects can this medication cause? Cetirizine may cause side effects. Tell your doctor if any of these symptoms are severe or do not go away: drowsiness excessive tiredness dry mouth stomach pain diarrhea vomiting Some side effects can be serious. The following symptom is uncommon, but if you experience it, call your doctor immediately: difficulty breathing or swallowing Cetirizine may cause other side effects. Call your doctor if you have any unusual problems while taking this medication. If you experience a serious side effect, you or your doctor may send a report to the Food and Drug Administration's (FDA) MedWatch Adverse Event Reporting program online ( http://www.fda.gov/Safety/MedWatch ) or by phone (1-800-332-1088). What should I know about storage and disposal of this medication? Keep this medication in the container it came in, tightly closed, and out of reach of children. Store it at room temperature and away from excess heat and moisture (not in the bathroom). It is important to keep all medication out of sight and reach of children as many containers (such as weekly pill minders and those for eye drops, creams, patches, and inhalers) are not child-resistant and young children can open them easily. To protect young children from poisoning, always lock safety caps and immediately place the medication in a safe location – one that is up and away and out of their sight and reach. http://www.upandaway.org Unneeded medications should be disposed of in special ways to ensure that pets, children, and other people cannot consume them. However, you should not flush this medication down the toilet. Instead, the best way to dispose of your medication is through a medicine take-back program. Talk to your pharmacist or contact your local garbage/recycling department to learn about take-back programs in your community. See the FDA's Safe Disposal of Medicines website ( http://goo.gl/c4Rm4p ) for more information if you do not have access to a take-back program. In case of emergency/overdose In case of overdose, call the poison control helpline at 1-800-222-1222. Information is also available online at https://www.poisonhelp.org/help . If the victim has collapsed, had a seizure, has trouble breathing, or can't be awakened, immediately call emergency services at 911. Symptoms of overdose may include: restlessness irritability drowsiness What other information should I know? Keep all appointments with your doctor. Ask your pharmacist any questions you have about cetirizine. It is important for you to keep a written list of all of the prescription and nonprescription (over-the-counter) medicines you are taking, as well as any products such as vitamins, minerals, or other dietary supplements. You should bring this list with you each time you visit a doctor or if you are admitted to a hospital. It is also important information to carry with you in case of emergencies. Brand names Aller-Tec Alleroff Zyrtec ®

[ Cetirizine pronounced as (se ti' ra zeen)  Cetirizine is used to temporarily relieve the symptoms of hay fever (allergy to pollen, dust, or other substances in the air) and allergy to other substances (such as dust mites, animal dander, cockroaches, and molds). These symptoms include sneezing; runny nose; itchy, red, watery eyes; and itchy nose or throat. Cetirizine is also used to treat itching and redness caused by hives. However, cetirizine does not prevent hives or other allergic skin reactions. Cetirizine is in a class of medications called antihistamines. It works by blocking the action of histamine, a substance in the body that causes allergic symptoms. Cetirizine is also available in combination with pseudoephedrine (Sudafed, others). This monograph only includes information about the use of cetirizine alone. If you are taking the cetirizine and pseudoephedrine combination product, read the information on the package label or ask your doctor or pharmacist for more information. How should this medicine be used? Cetirizine comes as a tablet, a chewable tablet, an extended release tablet, and a syrup (liquid) to take by mouth. It is usually taken once a day with or without food. Take cetirizine at around the same time every day. Follow the directions on your package label carefully, and ask your doctor or pharmacist to explain any part you do not understand. Take cetirizine exactly as directed. Do not take more or less of it or take it more often than directed on the package label or as recommended by your doctor. Do not use cetirizine to treat hives that are bruised or blistered, that are an unusual color, or that do not itch. Call your doctor if you have these types of hives. Stop taking cetirizine and call your doctor if your hives do not improve during the first 3 days of your treatment or if your hives last longer than 6 weeks. If you do not know the cause of your hives, call your doctor. If you are taking cetirizine to treat hives, and you develop any of the following symptoms, get emergency medical help right away: difficulty swallowing, speaking, or breathing; swelling in and around the mouth or swelling of the tongue; wheezing; drooling; dizziness; or loss of consciousness. These may be symptoms of a life-threatening allergic reaction called anaphylaxis. If your doctor suspects that you may experience anaphylaxis with your hives, he may prescribe an epinephrine injector (EpiPen). Do not use cetirizine in place of the epinephrine injector. Other uses for this medicine This medication may be prescribed for other uses; ask your doctor or pharmacist for more information. What special precautions should I follow? Before taking cetirizine, tell your doctor and pharmacist if you are allergic to cetirizine, hydroxyzine (Vistaril), or any other medications. tell your doctor and pharmacist what prescription and nonprescription medications, vitamins, nutritional supplements, and herbal products you are taking or plan to take. Be sure to mention any of the following: antidepressants, medications for anxiety, medications for mental illness, medications for seizures, other medications for cold and allergy, sedatives, sleeping pills, tranquilizers, and theophylline (Theo-24, Theolair). Your doctor may need to change the doses of your medications or monitor you carefully for side effects. tell your doctor if you have or have ever had kidney or liver disease. tell your doctor if you are pregnant, plan to become pregnant, or are breast-feeding. If you become pregnant while taking cetirizine, call your doctor. you should know that cetirizine may make you drowsy. Do not drive a car or operate machinery until you know how this medication affects you. remember that alcohol can add to the drowsiness caused by this medication. Avoid drinking alcoholic beverages while taking this medication. What special dietary instructions should I follow? Unless your doctor tells you otherwise, continue your normal diet. What should I do if I forget a dose? Take the missed dose as soon as you remember it. However, if it is almost time for the next dose, skip the missed dose and continue your regular dosing schedule. Do not take a double dose to make up for a missed one. What side effects can this medication cause? Cetirizine may cause side effects. Tell your doctor if any of these symptoms are severe or do not go away: drowsiness excessive tiredness dry mouth stomach pain diarrhea vomiting Some side effects can be serious. The following symptom is uncommon, but if you experience it, call your doctor immediately: difficulty breathing or swallowing Cetirizine may cause other side effects. Call your doctor if you have any unusual problems while taking this medication. If you experience a serious side effect, you or your doctor may send a report to the Food and Drug Administration's (FDA) MedWatch Adverse Event Reporting program online ( http://www.fda.gov/Safety/MedWatch ) or by phone (1-800-332-1088). What should I know about storage and disposal of this medication? Keep this medication in the container it came in, tightly closed, and out of reach of children. Store it at room temperature and away from excess heat and moisture (not in the bathroom). It is important to keep all medication out of sight and reach of children as many containers (such as weekly pill minders and those for eye drops, creams, patches, and inhalers) are not child-resistant and young children can open them easily. To protect young children from poisoning, always lock safety caps and immediately place the medication in a safe location – one that is up and away and out of their sight and reach. http://www.upandaway.org Unneeded medications should be disposed of in special ways to ensure that pets, children, and other people cannot consume them. However, you should not flush this medication down the toilet. Instead, the best way to dispose of your medication is through a medicine take-back program. Talk to your pharmacist or contact your local garbage/recycling department to learn about take-back programs in your community. See the FDA's Safe Disposal of Medicines website ( http://goo.gl/c4Rm4p ) for more information if you do not have access to a take-back program. In case of emergency/overdose In case of overdose, call the poison control helpline at 1-800-222-1222. Information is also available online at https://www.poisonhelp.org/help . If the victim has collapsed, had a seizure, has trouble breathing, or can't be awakened, immediately call emergency services at 911. Symptoms of overdose may include: restlessness irritability drowsiness What other information should I know? Keep all appointments with your doctor. Ask your pharmacist any questions you have about cetirizine. It is important for you to keep a written list of all of the prescription and nonprescription (over-the-counter) medicines you are taking, as well as any products such as vitamins, minerals, or other dietary supplements. You should bring this list with you each time you visit a doctor or if you are admitted to a hospital. It is also important information to carry with you in case of emergencies. Brand names Aller-Tec Alleroff Zyrtec ®

[ Chlorpheniramine pronounced as (klor fen ir' a meen)  Chlorpheniramine relieves red, itchy, watery eyes; sneezing; itchy nose or throat; and runny nose caused by allergies, hay fever, and the common cold. Chlorpheniramine helps control the symptoms of cold or allergies but will not treat the cause of the symptoms or speed recovery. Chlorpheniramine is in a class of medications called antihistamines. It works by blocking the action of histamine, a substance in the body that causes allergic symptoms. How should this medicine be used? Chlorpheniramine comes as a tablet, a capsule, an extended-release (long-acting) tablet and capsule, a chewable tablet, and a liquid to take by mouth. The regular capsules and tablets, chewable tablets, and liquid are usually taken every 4 to 6 hours as needed. The extended-release (long-acting) tablets and capsules are usually taken twice a day in the morning and evening as needed. Follow the directions on your prescription label carefully, and ask your doctor or pharmacist to explain any part you do not understand. Take chlorpheniramine exactly as directed. Do not take more or less of it or take it more often than prescribed by your doctor. Chlorpheniramine comes alone and in combination with fever and pain reducers, expectorants, cough suppressants, and decongestants. Ask your doctor or pharmacist for advice on which product is best for your symptoms. Check nonprescription cough and cold product labels carefully before using 2 or more products at the same time. These products may contain the same active ingredient(s) and taking them together could cause you to receive an overdose.This is especially important if you will be giving cough and cold medications to a child. Nonprescription cough and cold combination products, including products that contain chlorpheniramine, can cause serious side effects or death in young children. Do not give these products to children younger than 4 years of age. If you give these products to children 4-11 years of age, use caution and follow the package directions carefully. If you are giving chlorpheniramine or a combination product that contains chlorpheniramine to a child, read the package label carefully to be sure that it is the right product for a child of that age. Do not give chlorpheniramine products that are made for adults to children. Before you give a chlorpheniramine product to a child, check the package label to find out how much medication the child should receive. Give the dose that matches the child's age on the chart. Ask the child's doctor if you don't know how much medication to give the child. If you are taking the liquid, do not use a household spoon to measure your dose. Use the measuring spoon or cup that came with the medication or use a spoon made especially for measuring medication. If you are using the extended-release tablets or capsules, swallow them whole. Do not break, crush, chew, or open them. Other uses for this medicine This medication is sometimes prescribed for other uses; ask your doctor or pharmacist for more information. What special precautions should I follow? Before taking chlorpheniramine, tell your doctor and pharmacist if you are allergic to chlorpheniramine, any other medications, or any of the ingredients in the chlorpheniramine product you plan to use. Check the package label for a list of the ingredients. tell your doctor and pharmacist what prescription and nonprescription medications, vitamins, nutritional supplements, and herbal products you are taking or plan to take. Be sure to mention any of the following: other medications for colds, hay fever, or allergies; medications for anxiety, depression, or seizures; muscle relaxants; narcotic medications for pain; sedatives; sleeping pills; and tranquilizers. tell your doctor if you have or have ever had asthma, emphysema, chronic bronchitis, or other types of lung disease; glaucoma (a condition in which increased pressure in the eye can lead to gradual loss of vision); ulcers; diabetes; difficulty urinating (due to an enlarged prostate gland); heart disease; high blood pressure; seizures; or an overactive thyroid gland. tell your doctor if you are pregnant, plan to become pregnant, or are breast-feeding. If you become pregnant while taking chlorpheniramine, call your doctor. if you are having surgery, including dental surgery, tell the doctor or dentist that you are taking chlorpheniramine. you should know that this medication may make you drowsy. Do not drive a car or operate machinery until you know how this medication affects you. ask your doctor about the safe use of alcohol while you are taking chlorpheniramine. Alcohol can make the side effects of chlorpheniramine worse. talk to your doctor about the risks and benefits of taking chlorpheniramine if you are 65 years of age or older. Older adults should not usually take chlorpheniramine because it is not as safe or effective as other medications that can be used to treat the same condition. What special dietary instructions should I follow? Unless your doctor tells you otherwise, continue your normal diet. What should I do if I forget a dose? Chlorpheniramine is usually taken as needed. If your doctor has told you to take chlorpheniramine regularly, take the missed dose as soon as you remember it. However, if it is almost time for the next dose, skip the missed dose and continue your regular dosing schedule. Do not take a double dose to make up for a missed one. What side effects can this medication cause? Chlorpheniramine may cause side effects. Tell your doctor if any of these symptoms are severe or do not go away: drowsiness dry mouth, nose, and throat nausea vomiting loss of appetite constipation headache increased chest congestion Some side effects can be serious. If you experience any of the following symptoms, call your doctor immediately: vision problems difficulty urinating If you experience a serious side effect, you or your doctor may send a report to the Food and Drug Administration's (FDA) MedWatch Adverse Event Reporting program online ( http://www.fda.gov/Safety/MedWatch ) or by phone (1-800-332-1088). What should I know about storage and disposal of this medication? Keep this medication in the container it came in, tightly closed, and out of reach of children. Store it at room temperature and away from excess heat and moisture (not in the bathroom). It is important to keep all medication out of sight and reach of children as many containers (such as weekly pill minders and those for eye drops, creams, patches, and inhalers) are not child-resistant and young children can open them easily. To protect young children from poisoning, always lock safety caps and immediately place the medication in a safe location – one that is up and away and out of their sight and reach. http://www.upandaway.org Unneeded medications should be disposed of in special ways to ensure that pets, children, and other people cannot consume them. However, you should not flush this medication down the toilet. Instead, the best way to dispose of your medication is through a medicine take-back program. Talk to your pharmacist or contact your local garbage/recycling department to learn about take-back programs in your community. See the FDA's Safe Disposal of Medicines website ( http://goo.gl/c4Rm4p ) for more information if you do not have access to a take-back program. In case of emergency/overdose In case of overdose, call the poison control helpline at 1-800-222-1222. Information is also available online at https://www.poisonhelp.org/help . If the victim has collapsed, had a seizure, has trouble breathing, or can't be awakened, immediately call emergency services at 911. What other information should I know? Ask your pharmacist any questions you have about chlorpheniramine. It is important for you to keep a written list of all of the prescription and nonprescription (over-the-counter) medicines you are taking, as well as any products such as vitamins, minerals, or other dietary supplements. You should bring this list with you each time you visit a doctor or if you are admitted to a hospital. It is also important information to carry with you in case of emergencies. Brand names Aller-Chlor ® Aller-Chlor ® Syrup Chlo-Amine ® Chlor-Trimeton ® 12 Hour Allergy Chlor-Trimeton ® 4 Hour Allergy Chlor-Trimeton ® 8 Hour Allergy Chlor-Trimeton ® Allergy Syrup Polaramine ® Polaramine ® Repetabs ® Polaramine ® Syrup Teldrin ® Allergy

[ Phenylephrine pronounced as (fen il ef' rin)  Phenylephrine is used to relieve nasal discomfort caused by colds, allergies, and hay fever. It is also used to relieve sinus congestion and pressure. Phenylephrine will relieve symptoms but will not treat the cause of the symptoms or speed recovery. Phenylephrine is in a class of medications called nasal decongestants. It works by reducing swelling of the blood vessels in the nasal passages. How should this medicine be used? Phenylephrine comes as a tablet, a liquid, or a dissolving strip to take by mouth. It is usually taken every 4 hours as needed. Follow the directions on your prescription label or the package label carefully, and ask your doctor or pharmacist to explain any part you do not understand. Take phenylephrine exactly as directed. Do not take more or less of it or take it more often than prescribed by your doctor or directed on the label. Phenylephrine comes alone and in combination with other medications. Ask your doctor or pharmacist for advice on which product is best for your symptoms. Check nonprescription cough and cold product labels carefully before using two or more products at the same time. These products may contain the same active ingredient(s) and taking them together could cause you to receive an overdose. This is especially important if you will be giving cough and cold medications to a child. Nonprescription cough and cold combination products, including products that contain phenylephrine, can cause serious side effects or death in young children. Do not give these products to children younger than 4 years of age. If you give these products to children 4 to 11 years of age, use caution and follow the package directions carefully. If you are giving phenylephrine or a combination product that contains phenylephrine to a child, read the package label carefully to be sure that it is the right product for a child of that age. Do not give phenylephrine products that are made for adults to children. Before you give a phenylephrine product to a child, check the package label to find out how much medication the child should receive. Give the dose that matches the child's age on the chart. Ask the child's doctor if you don't know how much medication to give the child. If you are taking the liquid, do not use a household spoon to measure your dose. Use the measuring spoon or cup that came with the medication or use a spoon made especially for measuring medication. If your symptoms do not get better within 7 days or if you have a fever, stop taking phenylephrine and call your doctor. If you are taking the dissolving strips, place one strip on your tongue and allow it to dissolve. Other uses for this medicine This medication may be prescribed for other uses; ask your doctor or pharmacist for more information. What special precautions should I follow? Before taking phenylephrine, tell your doctor and pharmacist if you are allergic to phenylephrine, any other medications, or any of the ingredients in phenylephrine preparations. do not take phenylephrine if you are taking a monoamine oxidase (MAO) inhibitor, such as isocarboxazid (Marplan), phenelzine (Nardil), selegiline (Eldepryl, Emsam, Zelapar), and tranylcypromine (Parnate), or if you have stopped taking one of these medications within the past 2 weeks. tell your doctor and pharmacist what other prescription and nonprescription medications, vitamins, nutritional supplements, and herbal products you are taking or plan to take. tell your doctor if you have or have ever had high blood pressure, diabetes, trouble urinating because of an enlarged prostate gland, or thyroid or heart disease. tell your doctor if you are pregnant, plan to become pregnant, or are breast-feeding. If you become pregnant while taking phenylephrine, call your doctor. if you are having surgery, including dental surgery, tell the doctor or dentist that you are taking phenylephrine. if you have phenylketonuria (PKU, an inherited condition in which a special diet must be followed to prevent damage to your brain that can cause severe intellectual disability), you should know that some phenylephrine products may be sweetened with aspartame, a source of phenylalanine. What special dietary instructions should I follow? Unless your doctor tells you otherwise, continue your normal diet. What should I do if I forget a dose? This medication is usually taken as needed. If your doctor has told you to take phenylephrine regularly, take the missed dose as soon as you remember it. However, if it is almost time for the next dose, skip the missed dose and continue your regular dosing schedule. Do not take a double dose to make up for a missed one. What side effects can this medication cause? Phenylephrine may cause side effects. Some side effects can be serious. If you experience any of these symptoms, stop using phenylephrine and call your doctor: nervousness dizziness sleeplessness Phenylephrine may cause other side effects. Call your doctor if you have any unusual problems while taking this medication. If you experience a serious side effect, you or your doctor may send a report to the Food and Drug Administration's (FDA) MedWatch Adverse Event Reporting program online ( http://www.fda.gov/Safety/MedWatch ) or by phone (1-800-332-1088). What should I know about storage and disposal of this medication? Keep this medication in the container it came in, tightly closed, and out of reach of children. Store it at room temperature and away from excess heat and moisture (not in the bathroom). It is important to keep all medication out of sight and reach of children as many containers (such as weekly pill minders and those for eye drops, creams, patches, and inhalers) are not child-resistant and young children can open them easily. To protect young children from poisoning, always lock safety caps and immediately place the medication in a safe location – one that is up and away and out of their sight and reach. http://www.upandaway.org Unneeded medications should be disposed of in special ways to ensure that pets, children, and other people cannot consume them. However, you should not flush this medication down the toilet. Instead, the best way to dispose of your medication is through a medicine take-back program. Talk to your pharmacist or contact your local garbage/recycling department to learn about take-back programs in your community. See the FDA's Safe Disposal of Medicines website ( http://goo.gl/c4Rm4p ) for more information if you do not have access to a take-back program. In case of emergency/overdose In case of overdose, call the poison control helpline at 1-800-222-1222. Information is also available online at https://www.poisonhelp.org/help . If the victim has collapsed, had a seizure, has trouble breathing, or can't be awakened, immediately call emergency services at 911. What other information should I know? Ask your pharmacist any questions you have about phenylephrine. It is important for you to keep a written list of all of the prescription and nonprescription (over-the-counter) medicines you are taking, as well as any products such as vitamins, minerals, or other dietary supplements. You should bring this list with you each time you visit a doctor or if you are admitted to a hospital. It is also important information to carry with you in case of emergencies. Brand names Children's Sudafed PE Nasal Decongestant ® Lusonal ® § PediaCare Children's Decongestant ® Sudafed PE Congestion ® Suphedrin PE ®

[ Diphenhydramine pronounced as (dye fen hye' dra meen)  Diphenhydramine is used to relieve red, irritated, itchy, watery eyes; sneezing; and runny nose caused by hay fever, allergies, or the common cold. Diphenhydramine is also used to relieve cough caused by minor throat or airway irritation. Diphenhydramine is also used to prevent and treat motion sickness, and to treat insomnia (difficulty falling asleep or staying asleep). Diphenhydramine is also used to control abnormal movements in people who have early stage parkinsonian syndrome (a disorder of the nervous system that causes difficulties with movement, muscle control, and balance) or who are experiencing movement problems as a side effect of a medication. Diphenhydramine will relieve the symptoms of these conditions but will not treat the cause of the symptoms or speed recovery. Diphenhydramine should not be used to cause sleepiness in children. Diphenhydramine is in a class of medications called antihistamines. It works by blocking the action of histamine, a substance in the body that causes allergic symptoms. How should this medicine be used? Diphenhydramine comes as a tablet, a rapidly disintegrating (dissolving) tablet, a capsule, a liquid-filled capsule, a dissolving strip, powder, and a liquid to take by mouth. When diphenhydramine is used for the relief of allergies, cold, and cough symptoms, it is usually taken every 4 to 6 hours. When diphenhydramine is used to treat motion sickness, it is usually taken 30 minutes before departure and, if needed, before meals and at bedtime. When diphenhydramine is used to treat insomnia it is taken at bedtime (30 minutes before planned sleep). When diphenhydramine is used to treat abnormal movements, it is usually taken three times a day at first and then taken 4 times a day. Follow the directions on the package or on your prescription label carefully, and ask your doctor or pharmacist to explain any part you do not understand. Take diphenhydramine exactly as directed. Do not take more or less of it or take it more often than prescribed by your doctor or directed on the label. Diphenhydramine comes alone and in combination with pain relievers, fever reducers, and decongestants. Ask your doctor or pharmacist for advice on which product is best for your symptoms. Check nonprescription cough and cold product labels carefully before using two or more products at the same time. These products may contain the same active ingredient(s) and taking them together could cause you to receive an overdose. This is especially important if you will be giving cough and cold medications to a child. Nonprescription cough and cold combination products, including products that contain diphenhydramine, can cause serious side effects or death in young children. Do not give these products to children younger than 4 years of age. If you give these products to children 4 to 11 years of age, use caution and follow the package directions carefully. If you are giving diphenhydramine or a combination product that contains diphenhydramine to a child, read the package label carefully to be sure that it is the right product for a child of that age. Do not give diphenhydramine products that are made for adults to children. Before you give a diphenhydramine product to a child, check the package label to find out how much medication the child should receive. Give the dose that matches the child's age on the chart. Ask the child's doctor if you don't know how much medication to give the child. If you are taking the liquid, do not use a household spoon to measure your dose. Use the measuring spoon or cup that came with the medication or use a spoon made especially for measuring medication. If you are taking the dissolving strips, place the strips on your tongue one at a time and swallow after they melt. If you are taking the rapidly dissolving tablets, place a tablet on your tongue and close your mouth. The tablet will quickly dissolve and can be swallowed with or without water. If you are taking the capsules, swallow them whole. Do not try to break the capsules. Other uses for this medicine This medication is sometimes prescribed for other uses; ask your doctor or pharmacist for more information. What special precautions should I follow? Before taking diphenhydramine, tell your doctor and pharmacist if you are allergic to diphenhydramine, any other medications, or any of the ingredients in diphenhydramine preparations. Ask your doctor or pharmacist or check the package label for a list of the ingredients. tell your doctor and pharmacist what prescription and nonprescription medications, vitamins, nutritional supplements, and herbal products you are taking or plan to take. Be sure to mention any of the following: other diphenhydramine products (even those that are used on the skin); other medications for colds, hay fever, or allergies; medications for anxiety, depression, or seizures; muscle relaxants; narcotic medications for pain; sedatives; sleeping pills; and tranquilizers. tell your doctor if you have or have ever had asthma, emphysema, chronic bronchitis, or other types of lung disease; glaucoma (a condition in which increased pressure in the eye can lead to gradual loss of vision); ulcers; difficulty urinating (due to an enlarged prostate gland); heart disease; high blood pressure; seizures; or an overactive thyroid gland.If you will be using the liquid, tell your doctor if you have been told to follow a low-sodium diet. tell your doctor if you are pregnant, plan to become pregnant, or are breast-feeding. If you become pregnant while taking diphenhydramine, call your doctor. you should know that generally diphenhydramine should not be used in older adults, except to manage serious allergic reactions, because it is not as safe or effective as other medication(s) to treat your condition. If you are 65 years of age or older, talk to your doctor about the risks and benefits of taking this medication. if you are having surgery, including dental surgery, tell the doctor or dentist that you are taking diphenhydramine. you should know that this medication may make you drowsy. Do not drive a car or operate machinery until you know how this medication affects you. remember that alcohol can add to the drowsiness caused by this medication. Avoid alcoholic beverages while you are taking this medication. if you have phenylketonuria (PKU, an inherited condition in which a special diet must be followed to prevent damage to your brain that can cause severe intellectual disability), you should know that some brands of chewable tablets and rapidly disintegrating tablets that contain diphenhydramine may be sweetened with aspartame, a source of phenylalanine. What special dietary instructions should I follow? Unless your doctor tells you otherwise, continue your normal diet. What should I do if I forget a dose? Diphenhydramine is usually taken as needed. If your doctor has told you to take diphenhydramine regularly, take the missed dose as soon as you remember it. However, if it is almost time for the next dose, skip the missed dose and continue your regular dosing schedule. Do not take a double dose to make up for a missed one. What side effects can this medication cause? Diphenhydramine may cause side effects. Tell your doctor if any of these symptoms are severe or do not go away: dry mouth, nose, and throat drowsiness dizziness nausea vomiting loss of appetite constipation increased chest congestion headache muscle weakness excitement (especially in children) nervousness Some side effects may be serious. If you experience any of the following symptoms, call your doctor immediately: vision problems difficulty urinating or painful urination Diphenhydramine may cause other side effects. Call your doctor if you experience any unusual problems while you are taking this medication. If you experience a serious side effect, you or your doctor may send a report to the Food and Drug Administration's (FDA) MedWatch Adverse Event Reporting program online ( http://www.fda.gov/Safety/MedWatch ) or by phone (1-800-332-1088). What should I know about storage and disposal of this medication? Keep this medication in the container it came in, tightly closed, and out of reach of children. Store it at room temperature and away from excess heat and moisture (not in the bathroom). It is important to keep all medication out of sight and reach of children as many containers (such as weekly pill minders and those for eye drops, creams, patches, and inhalers) are not child-resistant and young children can open them easily. To protect young children from poisoning, always lock safety caps and immediately place the medication in a safe location – one that is up and away and out of their sight and reach. http://www.upandaway.org Unneeded medications should be disposed of in special ways to ensure that pets, children, and other people cannot consume them. However, you should not flush this medication down the toilet. Instead, the best way to dispose of your medication is through a medicine take-back program. Talk to your pharmacist or contact your local garbage/recycling department to learn about take-back programs in your community. See the FDA's Safe Disposal of Medicines website ( http://goo.gl/c4Rm4p ) for more information if you do not have access to a take-back program. In case of emergency/overdose In case of overdose, call the poison control helpline at 1-800-222-1222. Information is also available online at https://www.poisonhelp.org/help . If the victim has collapsed, had a seizure, has trouble breathing, or can't be awakened, immediately call emergency services at 911. What other information should I know? Ask your pharmacist any questions you have about diphenhydramine. It is important for you to keep a written list of all of the prescription and nonprescription (over-the-counter) medicines you are taking, as well as any products such as vitamins, minerals, or other dietary supplements. You should bring this list with you each time you visit a doctor or if you are admitted to a hospital. It is also important information to carry with you in case of emergencies. Brand names Aler-Dryl ® Allergia-C ® ¶ Allermax ® ¶ Altaryl ® ¶ Banophen ® ¶ Ben Tann ® § Benadryl ® Bromanate AF ® ¶ Compoz Nighttime Sleep Aid ® ¶ Dicopanol ® § Diphedryl ® ¶ Diphen ® ¶ Diphenadryl ® ¶ Diphenhist ® Diphenylin ® ¶ Dytan ® ¶ Hydramine ® ¶ Nytol ® Pardryl ® ¶ PediaCare Children's Allergy ® Siladryl ® Silphen ® Sominex ® Unisom ®

[ Diphenhydramine Topical pronounced as (dye fen hye' dra meen) To use the sharing features on this page, please enable JavaScript. Why is this medication prescribed? How should this medicine be used? What special precautions should I follow? What should I do if I forget a dose? What side effects can this medication cause? What should I know about storage and disposal of this medication? What other information should I know? Brand names Why is this medication prescribed? Diphenhydramine, an antihistamine, is used to relieve the itching of insect bites, sunburns, bee stings, poison ivy, poison oak, and minor skin irritation. This medication is sometimes prescribed for other uses; ask your doctor or pharmacist for more information. How should this medicine be used? Diphenhydramine topical comes in cream, lotion, gel, and spray to be applied to the skin. It is used three or four times a day. Follow the directions on the package or on your prescription label carefully, and ask your doctor or pharmacist to explain any part you do not understand. Use diphenhydramine exactly as directed. Do not use more or less of it or use it more often than directed by your doctor. Thoroughly clean the affected area, allow it to dry, and then gently rub the medication in until most of it disappears. Use just enough medication to cover the affected area. You should wash your hands after applying the medication. Do not apply diphenhydramine on chicken pox or measles, and do not use it on a child younger than 2 years of age unless directed to do so by a doctor. What special precautions should I follow? Before using diphenhydramine, tell your doctor and pharmacist if you are allergic to diphenhydramine or any other drugs. Tell your doctor and pharmacist what prescription and nonprescription medications, vitamins, nutritional supplements, and herbal products you are taking or plan to take. tell your doctor if you are pregnant, plan to become pregnant, or are breast-feeding. If you become pregnant while using diphenhydramine, call your doctor. plan to avoid unnecessary or prolonged exposure to sunlight and to wear protective clothing, sunglasses, and sunscreen. Diphenhydramine may make your skin sensitive to sunlight. What should I do if I forget a dose? Apply the missed dose as soon as you remember it. However, if it is almost time for the next dose, skip the missed dose and continue your regular dosing schedule. Do not apply a double dose to make up for a missed one. What side effects can this medication cause? Diphenhydramine may cause side effects. Tell your doctor if any of these symptoms are severe or do not go away: skin rash sunburn increased sensitivity to sunlamps and sunlight What should I know about storage and disposal of this medication? Keep this medication in the container it came in, tightly closed, and out of reach of children. Store it at room temperature and away from excess heat and moisture (not in the bathroom). The spray is flammable. Keep it away from flames and extreme heat. It is important to keep all medication out of sight and reach of children as many containers (such as weekly pill minders and those for eye drops, creams, patches, and inhalers) are not child-resistant and young children can open them easily. To protect young children from poisoning, always lock safety caps and immediately place the medication in a safe location – one that is up and away and out of their sight and reach. http://www.upandaway.org What other information should I know? Keep all appointments with your doctor. Diphenhydramine is for external use only. Do not let diphenhydramine get into your eyes, nose, or mouth, and do not swallow it. Do not apply dressings, bandages, cosmetics, lotions, or other skin medications to the area being treated unless your doctor tells you. Do not let anyone else use your medication. Ask your pharmacist any questions you have about refilling your prescription. Tell your doctor if your skin condition becomes severe or does not go away. It is important for you to keep a written list of all of the prescription and nonprescription (over-the-counter) medicines you are taking, as well as any products such as vitamins, minerals, or other dietary supplements. You should bring this list with you each time you visit a doctor or if you are admitted to a hospital. It is also important information to carry with you in case of emergencies. Brand names Afterbite with Antihistamine Benadryl ® Itch Stopping Gel

[ Phenylephrine pronounced as (fen il ef' rin)  Phenylephrine is used to relieve nasal discomfort caused by colds, allergies, and hay fever. It is also used to relieve sinus congestion and pressure. Phenylephrine will relieve symptoms but will not treat the cause of the symptoms or speed recovery. Phenylephrine is in a class of medications called nasal decongestants. It works by reducing swelling of the blood vessels in the nasal passages. How should this medicine be used? Phenylephrine comes as a tablet, a liquid, or a dissolving strip to take by mouth. It is usually taken every 4 hours as needed. Follow the directions on your prescription label or the package label carefully, and ask your doctor or pharmacist to explain any part you do not understand. Take phenylephrine exactly as directed. Do not take more or less of it or take it more often than prescribed by your doctor or directed on the label. Phenylephrine comes alone and in combination with other medications. Ask your doctor or pharmacist for advice on which product is best for your symptoms. Check nonprescription cough and cold product labels carefully before using two or more products at the same time. These products may contain the same active ingredient(s) and taking them together could cause you to receive an overdose. This is especially important if you will be giving cough and cold medications to a child. Nonprescription cough and cold combination products, including products that contain phenylephrine, can cause serious side effects or death in young children. Do not give these products to children younger than 4 years of age. If you give these products to children 4 to 11 years of age, use caution and follow the package directions carefully. If you are giving phenylephrine or a combination product that contains phenylephrine to a child, read the package label carefully to be sure that it is the right product for a child of that age. Do not give phenylephrine products that are made for adults to children. Before you give a phenylephrine product to a child, check the package label to find out how much medication the child should receive. Give the dose that matches the child's age on the chart. Ask the child's doctor if you don't know how much medication to give the child. If you are taking the liquid, do not use a household spoon to measure your dose. Use the measuring spoon or cup that came with the medication or use a spoon made especially for measuring medication. If your symptoms do not get better within 7 days or if you have a fever, stop taking phenylephrine and call your doctor. If you are taking the dissolving strips, place one strip on your tongue and allow it to dissolve. Other uses for this medicine This medication may be prescribed for other uses; ask your doctor or pharmacist for more information. What special precautions should I follow? Before taking phenylephrine, tell your doctor and pharmacist if you are allergic to phenylephrine, any other medications, or any of the ingredients in phenylephrine preparations. do not take phenylephrine if you are taking a monoamine oxidase (MAO) inhibitor, such as isocarboxazid (Marplan), phenelzine (Nardil), selegiline (Eldepryl, Emsam, Zelapar), and tranylcypromine (Parnate), or if you have stopped taking one of these medications within the past 2 weeks. tell your doctor and pharmacist what other prescription and nonprescription medications, vitamins, nutritional supplements, and herbal products you are taking or plan to take. tell your doctor if you have or have ever had high blood pressure, diabetes, trouble urinating because of an enlarged prostate gland, or thyroid or heart disease. tell your doctor if you are pregnant, plan to become pregnant, or are breast-feeding. If you become pregnant while taking phenylephrine, call your doctor. if you are having surgery, including dental surgery, tell the doctor or dentist that you are taking phenylephrine. if you have phenylketonuria (PKU, an inherited condition in which a special diet must be followed to prevent damage to your brain that can cause severe intellectual disability), you should know that some phenylephrine products may be sweetened with aspartame, a source of phenylalanine. What special dietary instructions should I follow? Unless your doctor tells you otherwise, continue your normal diet. What should I do if I forget a dose? This medication is usually taken as needed. If your doctor has told you to take phenylephrine regularly, take the missed dose as soon as you remember it. However, if it is almost time for the next dose, skip the missed dose and continue your regular dosing schedule. Do not take a double dose to make up for a missed one. What side effects can this medication cause? Phenylephrine may cause side effects. Some side effects can be serious. If you experience any of these symptoms, stop using phenylephrine and call your doctor: nervousness dizziness sleeplessness Phenylephrine may cause other side effects. Call your doctor if you have any unusual problems while taking this medication. If you experience a serious side effect, you or your doctor may send a report to the Food and Drug Administration's (FDA) MedWatch Adverse Event Reporting program online ( http://www.fda.gov/Safety/MedWatch ) or by phone (1-800-332-1088). What should I know about storage and disposal of this medication? Keep this medication in the container it came in, tightly closed, and out of reach of children. Store it at room temperature and away from excess heat and moisture (not in the bathroom). It is important to keep all medication out of sight and reach of children as many containers (such as weekly pill minders and those for eye drops, creams, patches, and inhalers) are not child-resistant and young children can open them easily. To protect young children from poisoning, always lock safety caps and immediately place the medication in a safe location – one that is up and away and out of their sight and reach. http://www.upandaway.org Unneeded medications should be disposed of in special ways to ensure that pets, children, and other people cannot consume them. However, you should not flush this medication down the toilet. Instead, the best way to dispose of your medication is through a medicine take-back program. Talk to your pharmacist or contact your local garbage/recycling department to learn about take-back programs in your community. See the FDA's Safe Disposal of Medicines website ( http://goo.gl/c4Rm4p ) for more information if you do not have access to a take-back program. In case of emergency/overdose In case of overdose, call the poison control helpline at 1-800-222-1222. Information is also available online at https://www.poisonhelp.org/help . If the victim has collapsed, had a seizure, has trouble breathing, or can't be awakened, immediately call emergency services at 911. What other information should I know? Ask your pharmacist any questions you have about phenylephrine. It is important for you to keep a written list of all of the prescription and nonprescription (over-the-counter) medicines you are taking, as well as any products such as vitamins, minerals, or other dietary supplements. You should bring this list with you each time you visit a doctor or if you are admitted to a hospital. It is also important information to carry with you in case of emergencies. Brand names Children's Sudafed PE Nasal Decongestant ® Lusonal ® § PediaCare Children's Decongestant ® Sudafed PE Congestion ® Suphedrin PE ®

[ Pseudoephedrine pronounced as (soo doe e fed' rin)  Pseudoephedrine is used to relieve nasal congestion caused by colds, allergies, and hay fever. It is also used to temporarily relieve sinus congestion and pressure. Pseudoephedrine will relieve symptoms but will not treat the cause of the symptoms or speed recovery. Pseudoephedrine is in a class of medications called nasal decongestants. It works by causing narrowing of the blood vessels in the nasal passages. How should this medicine be used? Pseudoephedrine comes as a regular tablet, a 12-hour extended-release (long-acting) tablet, a 24-hour extended-release tablet, and a solution (liquid) to be taken by mouth. The regular tablets and liquid are usually taken every 4 to 6 hours. The 12-hour extended-release tablets usually are taken every 12 hours, and you should not take more than two doses in a 24-hour period. The 24-hour extended-release tablets usually are taken once a day, and you should not take more than one dose in a 24-hour period. To help prevent trouble sleeping, take the last dose of the day several hours before bedtime. Follow the directions on the package label or on your prescription label carefully, and ask your doctor or pharmacist to explain any part you do not understand. Take pseudoephedrine exactly as directed. Do not take more or less of it or take it more often than prescribed by your doctor or directed on the label. Pseudoephedrine comes alone and in combination with other medications. Ask your doctor or pharmacist for advice on which product is best for your symptoms. Check nonprescription cough and cold product labels carefully before using 2 or more products at the same time. These products may contain the same active ingredient(s) and taking them together could cause you to receive an overdose. This is especially important if you will be giving cough and cold medications to a child. Nonprescription cough and cold combination products, including products that contain pseudoephedrine, can cause serious side effects or death in young children. Do not give nonprescription pseudoephedrine products to children younger than 4 years of age. If you give these products to children 4-11 years of age, use caution and follow the package directions carefully. Do not give pseudoephedrine extended-release tablets to children younger than 12 years of age. If you are giving pseudoephedrine or a combination product that contains pseudoephedrine to a child, read the package label carefully to be sure that it is the right product for a child of that age. Do not give pseudoephedrine products that are made for adults to children. Before you give a pseudoephedrine product to a child, check the package label to find out how much medication the child should receive. Give the dose that matches the child's age on the chart. Ask the child's doctor if you don't know how much medication to give the child. If you are taking the liquid, do not use a household spoon to measure your dose. Use the measuring spoon or cup that came with the medication or use a spoon made especially for measuring medication. If your symptoms do not get better within 7 days or if you have a fever, stop taking pseudoephedrine and call your doctor. Swallow the extended-release tablets whole; do not break, crush, or chew them. Other uses for this medicine This medication is also sometimes used to prevent ear pain and blockage caused by pressure changes during air travel or underwater diving. Talk to your doctor or pharmacist for more information. This medication is sometimes prescribed for other uses; ask your doctor or pharmacist for more information. What special precautions should I follow? Before taking pseudoephedrine, tell your doctor and pharmacist if you are allergic to pseudoephedrine, any other medications, or any of the inactive ingredients in the pseudoephedrine product you plan to take. Check the package label for a list of the ingredients. do not take pseudoephedrine if you are taking a monoamine oxidase (MAO) inhibitor such as isocarboxazid (Marplan), phenelzine (Nardil), selegiline (Eldepryl, Emsam, Zelapar), and tranylcypromine (Parnate), or if you have stopped taking one of these medications within the past 2 weeks. tell your doctor and pharmacist what prescription and nonprescription medications, vitamins, nutritional supplements, and herbal products you are taking or plan to take. Be sure to mention medications for diet or appetite control, asthma, colds, or high blood pressure. tell your doctor if you have or have ever had high blood pressure, glaucoma (a condition in which increased pressure in the eye can lead to gradual loss of vision), diabetes, difficulty urinating (due to an enlarged prostate gland), or thyroid or heart disease. If you plan to take the 24-hour extended-release tablets, tell your doctor if you have had a narrowing or blockage of your digestive system. tell your doctor if you are pregnant, plan to become pregnant, or are breast-feeding. If you become pregnant while taking pseudoephedrine, call your doctor. if you are having surgery, including dental surgery, tell the doctor or dentist that you are taking pseudoephedrine. What special dietary instructions should I follow? Foods and drinks that contain large amounts of caffeine can make the side effects of pseudoephedrine worse. What should I do if I forget a dose? This medication is usually taken as needed. If your doctor has told you to take pseudoephedrine regularly, take the missed dose as soon as you remember it. However, if it is almost time for the next dose, skip the missed dose and continue your regular dosing schedule. Do not take a double dose to make up for a missed one. What side effects can this medication cause? Pseudoephedrine may cause side effects. Tell your doctor if any of these symptoms are severe or do not go away: restlessness nausea vomiting weakness headache Some side effects can be serious. If you experience any of the following symptoms, call your doctor immediately: nervousness dizziness difficulty sleeping stomach pain difficulty breathing fast, pounding, or irregular heartbeat Pseudoephedrine may cause other side effects. Call your doctor if you have any unusual problems while you are taking this medication. If you experience a serious side effect, you or your doctor may send a report to the Food and Drug Administration's (FDA) MedWatch Adverse Event Reporting program online ( http://www.fda.gov/Safety/MedWatch ) or by phone (1-800-332-1088). What should I know about storage and disposal of this medication? Keep this medication in the container it came in, tightly closed, and out of reach of children. Store it at room temperature and away from excess heat and moisture (not in the bathroom). Unneeded medications should be disposed of in special ways to ensure that pets, children, and other people cannot consume them. However, you should not flush this medication down the toilet. Instead, the best way to dispose of your medication is through a medicine take-back program. Talk to your pharmacist or contact your local garbage/recycling department to learn about take-back programs in your community. See the FDA's Safe Disposal of Medicines website ( http://goo.gl/c4Rm4p ) for more information if you do not have access to a take-back program. It is important to keep all medication out of sight and reach of children as many containers (such as weekly pill minders and those for eye drops, creams, patches, and inhalers) are not child-resistant and young children can open them easily. To protect young children from poisoning, always lock safety caps and immediately place the medication in a safe location – one that is up and away and out of their sight and reach. http://www.upandaway.org In case of emergency/overdose In case of overdose, call the poison control helpline at 1-800-222-1222. Information is also available online at https://www.poisonhelp.org/help . If the victim has collapsed, had a seizure, has trouble breathing, or can't be awakened, immediately call emergency services at 911. What other information should I know? If you are taking the 24-hour extended-release tablets, you may notice something that looks like a tablet in your stool. This is just the empty tablet shell, and this does not mean that you did not get your complete dose of medication. Ask your pharmacist any questions you have about pseudoephedrine. It is important for you to keep a written list of all of the prescription and nonprescription (over-the-counter) medicines you are taking, as well as any products such as vitamins, minerals, or other dietary supplements. You should bring this list with you each time you visit a doctor or if you are admitted to a hospital. It is also important information to carry with you in case of emergencies. Brand names Afrinol ® ¶ Cenafed ® ¶ Children's Sudafed Nasal Decongestant ® Congestaclear ® ¶ Efidac ® ¶ Myfedrine ® ¶ Pseudocot ® ¶ Ridafed ® ¶ Silfedrine ® Sudafed 12/24 Hour ® Sudafed Congestion ® Sudodrin ® ¶ SudoGest ® Sudrine ® ¶ Superfed ® ¶ Suphedrin ® Allegra-D® (as a combination product containing Fexofenadine, Pseudoephedrine)

[ Diphenhydramine pronounced as (dye fen hye' dra meen)  Diphenhydramine is used to relieve red, irritated, itchy, watery eyes; sneezing; and runny nose caused by hay fever, allergies, or the common cold. Diphenhydramine is also used to relieve cough caused by minor throat or airway irritation. Diphenhydramine is also used to prevent and treat motion sickness, and to treat insomnia (difficulty falling asleep or staying asleep). Diphenhydramine is also used to control abnormal movements in people who have early stage parkinsonian syndrome (a disorder of the nervous system that causes difficulties with movement, muscle control, and balance) or who are experiencing movement problems as a side effect of a medication. Diphenhydramine will relieve the symptoms of these conditions but will not treat the cause of the symptoms or speed recovery. Diphenhydramine should not be used to cause sleepiness in children. Diphenhydramine is in a class of medications called antihistamines. It works by blocking the action of histamine, a substance in the body that causes allergic symptoms. How should this medicine be used? Diphenhydramine comes as a tablet, a rapidly disintegrating (dissolving) tablet, a capsule, a liquid-filled capsule, a dissolving strip, powder, and a liquid to take by mouth. When diphenhydramine is used for the relief of allergies, cold, and cough symptoms, it is usually taken every 4 to 6 hours. When diphenhydramine is used to treat motion sickness, it is usually taken 30 minutes before departure and, if needed, before meals and at bedtime. When diphenhydramine is used to treat insomnia it is taken at bedtime (30 minutes before planned sleep). When diphenhydramine is used to treat abnormal movements, it is usually taken three times a day at first and then taken 4 times a day. Follow the directions on the package or on your prescription label carefully, and ask your doctor or pharmacist to explain any part you do not understand. Take diphenhydramine exactly as directed. Do not take more or less of it or take it more often than prescribed by your doctor or directed on the label. Diphenhydramine comes alone and in combination with pain relievers, fever reducers, and decongestants. Ask your doctor or pharmacist for advice on which product is best for your symptoms. Check nonprescription cough and cold product labels carefully before using two or more products at the same time. These products may contain the same active ingredient(s) and taking them together could cause you to receive an overdose. This is especially important if you will be giving cough and cold medications to a child. Nonprescription cough and cold combination products, including products that contain diphenhydramine, can cause serious side effects or death in young children. Do not give these products to children younger than 4 years of age. If you give these products to children 4 to 11 years of age, use caution and follow the package directions carefully. If you are giving diphenhydramine or a combination product that contains diphenhydramine to a child, read the package label carefully to be sure that it is the right product for a child of that age. Do not give diphenhydramine products that are made for adults to children. Before you give a diphenhydramine product to a child, check the package label to find out how much medication the child should receive. Give the dose that matches the child's age on the chart. Ask the child's doctor if you don't know how much medication to give the child. If you are taking the liquid, do not use a household spoon to measure your dose. Use the measuring spoon or cup that came with the medication or use a spoon made especially for measuring medication. If you are taking the dissolving strips, place the strips on your tongue one at a time and swallow after they melt. If you are taking the rapidly dissolving tablets, place a tablet on your tongue and close your mouth. The tablet will quickly dissolve and can be swallowed with or without water. If you are taking the capsules, swallow them whole. Do not try to break the capsules. Other uses for this medicine This medication is sometimes prescribed for other uses; ask your doctor or pharmacist for more information. What special precautions should I follow? Before taking diphenhydramine, tell your doctor and pharmacist if you are allergic to diphenhydramine, any other medications, or any of the ingredients in diphenhydramine preparations. Ask your doctor or pharmacist or check the package label for a list of the ingredients. tell your doctor and pharmacist what prescription and nonprescription medications, vitamins, nutritional supplements, and herbal products you are taking or plan to take. Be sure to mention any of the following: other diphenhydramine products (even those that are used on the skin); other medications for colds, hay fever, or allergies; medications for anxiety, depression, or seizures; muscle relaxants; narcotic medications for pain; sedatives; sleeping pills; and tranquilizers. tell your doctor if you have or have ever had asthma, emphysema, chronic bronchitis, or other types of lung disease; glaucoma (a condition in which increased pressure in the eye can lead to gradual loss of vision); ulcers; difficulty urinating (due to an enlarged prostate gland); heart disease; high blood pressure; seizures; or an overactive thyroid gland.If you will be using the liquid, tell your doctor if you have been told to follow a low-sodium diet. tell your doctor if you are pregnant, plan to become pregnant, or are breast-feeding. If you become pregnant while taking diphenhydramine, call your doctor. you should know that generally diphenhydramine should not be used in older adults, except to manage serious allergic reactions, because it is not as safe or effective as other medication(s) to treat your condition. If you are 65 years of age or older, talk to your doctor about the risks and benefits of taking this medication. if you are having surgery, including dental surgery, tell the doctor or dentist that you are taking diphenhydramine. you should know that this medication may make you drowsy. Do not drive a car or operate machinery until you know how this medication affects you. remember that alcohol can add to the drowsiness caused by this medication. Avoid alcoholic beverages while you are taking this medication. if you have phenylketonuria (PKU, an inherited condition in which a special diet must be followed to prevent damage to your brain that can cause severe intellectual disability), you should know that some brands of chewable tablets and rapidly disintegrating tablets that contain diphenhydramine may be sweetened with aspartame, a source of phenylalanine. What special dietary instructions should I follow? Unless your doctor tells you otherwise, continue your normal diet. What should I do if I forget a dose? Diphenhydramine is usually taken as needed. If your doctor has told you to take diphenhydramine regularly, take the missed dose as soon as you remember it. However, if it is almost time for the next dose, skip the missed dose and continue your regular dosing schedule. Do not take a double dose to make up for a missed one. What side effects can this medication cause? Diphenhydramine may cause side effects. Tell your doctor if any of these symptoms are severe or do not go away: dry mouth, nose, and throat drowsiness dizziness nausea vomiting loss of appetite constipation increased chest congestion headache muscle weakness excitement (especially in children) nervousness Some side effects may be serious. If you experience any of the following symptoms, call your doctor immediately: vision problems difficulty urinating or painful urination Diphenhydramine may cause other side effects. Call your doctor if you experience any unusual problems while you are taking this medication. If you experience a serious side effect, you or your doctor may send a report to the Food and Drug Administration's (FDA) MedWatch Adverse Event Reporting program online ( http://www.fda.gov/Safety/MedWatch ) or by phone (1-800-332-1088). What should I know about storage and disposal of this medication? Keep this medication in the container it came in, tightly closed, and out of reach of children. Store it at room temperature and away from excess heat and moisture (not in the bathroom). It is important to keep all medication out of sight and reach of children as many containers (such as weekly pill minders and those for eye drops, creams, patches, and inhalers) are not child-resistant and young children can open them easily. To protect young children from poisoning, always lock safety caps and immediately place the medication in a safe location – one that is up and away and out of their sight and reach. http://www.upandaway.org Unneeded medications should be disposed of in special ways to ensure that pets, children, and other people cannot consume them. However, you should not flush this medication down the toilet. Instead, the best way to dispose of your medication is through a medicine take-back program. Talk to your pharmacist or contact your local garbage/recycling department to learn about take-back programs in your community. See the FDA's Safe Disposal of Medicines website ( http://goo.gl/c4Rm4p ) for more information if you do not have access to a take-back program. In case of emergency/overdose In case of overdose, call the poison control helpline at 1-800-222-1222. Information is also available online at https://www.poisonhelp.org/help . If the victim has collapsed, had a seizure, has trouble breathing, or can't be awakened, immediately call emergency services at 911. What other information should I know? Ask your pharmacist any questions you have about diphenhydramine. It is important for you to keep a written list of all of the prescription and nonprescription (over-the-counter) medicines you are taking, as well as any products such as vitamins, minerals, or other dietary supplements. You should bring this list with you each time you visit a doctor or if you are admitted to a hospital. It is also important information to carry with you in case of emergencies. Brand names Aler-Dryl ® Allergia-C ® ¶ Allermax ® ¶ Altaryl ® ¶ Banophen ® ¶ Ben Tann ® § Benadryl ® Bromanate AF ® ¶ Compoz Nighttime Sleep Aid ® ¶ Dicopanol ® § Diphedryl ® ¶ Diphen ® ¶ Diphenadryl ® ¶ Diphenhist ® Diphenylin ® ¶ Dytan ® ¶ Hydramine ® ¶ Nytol ® Pardryl ® ¶ PediaCare Children's Allergy ® Siladryl ® Silphen ® Sominex ® Unisom ®



[ Cetirizine pronounced as (se ti' ra zeen)  Cetirizine is used to temporarily relieve the symptoms of hay fever (allergy to pollen, dust, or other substances in the air) and allergy to other substances (such as dust mites, animal dander, cockroaches, and molds). These symptoms include sneezing; runny nose; itchy, red, watery eyes; and itchy nose or throat. Cetirizine is also used to treat itching and redness caused by hives. However, cetirizine does not prevent hives or other allergic skin reactions. Cetirizine is in a class of medications called antihistamines. It works by blocking the action of histamine, a substance in the body that causes allergic symptoms. Cetirizine is also available in combination with pseudoephedrine (Sudafed, others). This monograph only includes information about the use of cetirizine alone. If you are taking the cetirizine and pseudoephedrine combination product, read the information on the package label or ask your doctor or pharmacist for more information. How should this medicine be used? Cetirizine comes as a tablet, a chewable tablet, an extended release tablet, and a syrup (liquid) to take by mouth. It is usually taken once a day with or without food. Take cetirizine at around the same time every day. Follow the directions on your package label carefully, and ask your doctor or pharmacist to explain any part you do not understand. Take cetirizine exactly as directed. Do not take more or less of it or take it more often than directed on the package label or as recommended by your doctor. Do not use cetirizine to treat hives that are bruised or blistered, that are an unusual color, or that do not itch. Call your doctor if you have these types of hives. Stop taking cetirizine and call your doctor if your hives do not improve during the first 3 days of your treatment or if your hives last longer than 6 weeks. If you do not know the cause of your hives, call your doctor. If you are taking cetirizine to treat hives, and you develop any of the following symptoms, get emergency medical help right away: difficulty swallowing, speaking, or breathing; swelling in and around the mouth or swelling of the tongue; wheezing; drooling; dizziness; or loss of consciousness. These may be symptoms of a life-threatening allergic reaction called anaphylaxis. If your doctor suspects that you may experience anaphylaxis with your hives, he may prescribe an epinephrine injector (EpiPen). Do not use cetirizine in place of the epinephrine injector. Other uses for this medicine This medication may be prescribed for other uses; ask your doctor or pharmacist for more information. What special precautions should I follow? Before taking cetirizine, tell your doctor and pharmacist if you are allergic to cetirizine, hydroxyzine (Vistaril), or any other medications. tell your doctor and pharmacist what prescription and nonprescription medications, vitamins, nutritional supplements, and herbal products you are taking or plan to take. Be sure to mention any of the following: antidepressants, medications for anxiety, medications for mental illness, medications for seizures, other medications for cold and allergy, sedatives, sleeping pills, tranquilizers, and theophylline (Theo-24, Theolair). Your doctor may need to change the doses of your medications or monitor you carefully for side effects. tell your doctor if you have or have ever had kidney or liver disease. tell your doctor if you are pregnant, plan to become pregnant, or are breast-feeding. If you become pregnant while taking cetirizine, call your doctor. you should know that cetirizine may make you drowsy. Do not drive a car or operate machinery until you know how this medication affects you. remember that alcohol can add to the drowsiness caused by this medication. Avoid drinking alcoholic beverages while taking this medication. What special dietary instructions should I follow? Unless your doctor tells you otherwise, continue your normal diet. What should I do if I forget a dose? Take the missed dose as soon as you remember it. However, if it is almost time for the next dose, skip the missed dose and continue your regular dosing schedule. Do not take a double dose to make up for a missed one. What side effects can this medication cause? Cetirizine may cause side effects. Tell your doctor if any of these symptoms are severe or do not go away: drowsiness excessive tiredness dry mouth stomach pain diarrhea vomiting Some side effects can be serious. The following symptom is uncommon, but if you experience it, call your doctor immediately: difficulty breathing or swallowing Cetirizine may cause other side effects. Call your doctor if you have any unusual problems while taking this medication. If you experience a serious side effect, you or your doctor may send a report to the Food and Drug Administration's (FDA) MedWatch Adverse Event Reporting program online ( http://www.fda.gov/Safety/MedWatch ) or by phone (1-800-332-1088). What should I know about storage and disposal of this medication? Keep this medication in the container it came in, tightly closed, and out of reach of children. Store it at room temperature and away from excess heat and moisture (not in the bathroom). It is important to keep all medication out of sight and reach of children as many containers (such as weekly pill minders and those for eye drops, creams, patches, and inhalers) are not child-resistant and young children can open them easily. To protect young children from poisoning, always lock safety caps and immediately place the medication in a safe location – one that is up and away and out of their sight and reach. http://www.upandaway.org Unneeded medications should be disposed of in special ways to ensure that pets, children, and other people cannot consume them. However, you should not flush this medication down the toilet. Instead, the best way to dispose of your medication is through a medicine take-back program. Talk to your pharmacist or contact your local garbage/recycling department to learn about take-back programs in your community. See the FDA's Safe Disposal of Medicines website ( http://goo.gl/c4Rm4p ) for more information if you do not have access to a take-back program. In case of emergency/overdose In case of overdose, call the poison control helpline at 1-800-222-1222. Information is also available online at https://www.poisonhelp.org/help . If the victim has collapsed, had a seizure, has trouble breathing, or can't be awakened, immediately call emergency services at 911. Symptoms of overdose may include: restlessness irritability drowsiness What other information should I know? Keep all appointments with your doctor. Ask your pharmacist any questions you have about cetirizine. It is important for you to keep a written list of all of the prescription and nonprescription (over-the-counter) medicines you are taking, as well as any products such as vitamins, minerals, or other dietary supplements. You should bring this list with you each time you visit a doctor or if you are admitted to a hospital. It is also important information to carry with you in case of emergencies. Brand names Aller-Tec Alleroff Zyrtec ®

[ Phenylephrine pronounced as (fen il ef' rin)  Phenylephrine is used to relieve nasal discomfort caused by colds, allergies, and hay fever. It is also used to relieve sinus congestion and pressure. Phenylephrine will relieve symptoms but will not treat the cause of the symptoms or speed recovery. Phenylephrine is in a class of medications called nasal decongestants. It works by reducing swelling of the blood vessels in the nasal passages. How should this medicine be used? Phenylephrine comes as a tablet, a liquid, or a dissolving strip to take by mouth. It is usually taken every 4 hours as needed. Follow the directions on your prescription label or the package label carefully, and ask your doctor or pharmacist to explain any part you do not understand. Take phenylephrine exactly as directed. Do not take more or less of it or take it more often than prescribed by your doctor or directed on the label. Phenylephrine comes alone and in combination with other medications. Ask your doctor or pharmacist for advice on which product is best for your symptoms. Check nonprescription cough and cold product labels carefully before using two or more products at the same time. These products may contain the same active ingredient(s) and taking them together could cause you to receive an overdose. This is especially important if you will be giving cough and cold medications to a child. Nonprescription cough and cold combination products, including products that contain phenylephrine, can cause serious side effects or death in young children. Do not give these products to children younger than 4 years of age. If you give these products to children 4 to 11 years of age, use caution and follow the package directions carefully. If you are giving phenylephrine or a combination product that contains phenylephrine to a child, read the package label carefully to be sure that it is the right product for a child of that age. Do not give phenylephrine products that are made for adults to children. Before you give a phenylephrine product to a child, check the package label to find out how much medication the child should receive. Give the dose that matches the child's age on the chart. Ask the child's doctor if you don't know how much medication to give the child. If you are taking the liquid, do not use a household spoon to measure your dose. Use the measuring spoon or cup that came with the medication or use a spoon made especially for measuring medication. If your symptoms do not get better within 7 days or if you have a fever, stop taking phenylephrine and call your doctor. If you are taking the dissolving strips, place one strip on your tongue and allow it to dissolve. Other uses for this medicine This medication may be prescribed for other uses; ask your doctor or pharmacist for more information. What special precautions should I follow? Before taking phenylephrine, tell your doctor and pharmacist if you are allergic to phenylephrine, any other medications, or any of the ingredients in phenylephrine preparations. do not take phenylephrine if you are taking a monoamine oxidase (MAO) inhibitor, such as isocarboxazid (Marplan), phenelzine (Nardil), selegiline (Eldepryl, Emsam, Zelapar), and tranylcypromine (Parnate), or if you have stopped taking one of these medications within the past 2 weeks. tell your doctor and pharmacist what other prescription and nonprescription medications, vitamins, nutritional supplements, and herbal products you are taking or plan to take. tell your doctor if you have or have ever had high blood pressure, diabetes, trouble urinating because of an enlarged prostate gland, or thyroid or heart disease. tell your doctor if you are pregnant, plan to become pregnant, or are breast-feeding. If you become pregnant while taking phenylephrine, call your doctor. if you are having surgery, including dental surgery, tell the doctor or dentist that you are taking phenylephrine. if you have phenylketonuria (PKU, an inherited condition in which a special diet must be followed to prevent damage to your brain that can cause severe intellectual disability), you should know that some phenylephrine products may be sweetened with aspartame, a source of phenylalanine. What special dietary instructions should I follow? Unless your doctor tells you otherwise, continue your normal diet. What should I do if I forget a dose? This medication is usually taken as needed. If your doctor has told you to take phenylephrine regularly, take the missed dose as soon as you remember it. However, if it is almost time for the next dose, skip the missed dose and continue your regular dosing schedule. Do not take a double dose to make up for a missed one. What side effects can this medication cause? Phenylephrine may cause side effects. Some side effects can be serious. If you experience any of these symptoms, stop using phenylephrine and call your doctor: nervousness dizziness sleeplessness Phenylephrine may cause other side effects. Call your doctor if you have any unusual problems while taking this medication. If you experience a serious side effect, you or your doctor may send a report to the Food and Drug Administration's (FDA) MedWatch Adverse Event Reporting program online ( http://www.fda.gov/Safety/MedWatch ) or by phone (1-800-332-1088). What should I know about storage and disposal of this medication? Keep this medication in the container it came in, tightly closed, and out of reach of children. Store it at room temperature and away from excess heat and moisture (not in the bathroom). It is important to keep all medication out of sight and reach of children as many containers (such as weekly pill minders and those for eye drops, creams, patches, and inhalers) are not child-resistant and young children can open them easily. To protect young children from poisoning, always lock safety caps and immediately place the medication in a safe location – one that is up and away and out of their sight and reach. http://www.upandaway.org Unneeded medications should be disposed of in special ways to ensure that pets, children, and other people cannot consume them. However, you should not flush this medication down the toilet. Instead, the best way to dispose of your medication is through a medicine take-back program. Talk to your pharmacist or contact your local garbage/recycling department to learn about take-back programs in your community. See the FDA's Safe Disposal of Medicines website ( http://goo.gl/c4Rm4p ) for more information if you do not have access to a take-back program. In case of emergency/overdose In case of overdose, call the poison control helpline at 1-800-222-1222. Information is also available online at https://www.poisonhelp.org/help . If the victim has collapsed, had a seizure, has trouble breathing, or can't be awakened, immediately call emergency services at 911. What other information should I know? Ask your pharmacist any questions you have about phenylephrine. It is important for you to keep a written list of all of the prescription and nonprescription (over-the-counter) medicines you are taking, as well as any products such as vitamins, minerals, or other dietary supplements. You should bring this list with you each time you visit a doctor or if you are admitted to a hospital. It is also important information to carry with you in case of emergencies. Brand names Children's Sudafed PE Nasal Decongestant ® Lusonal ® § PediaCare Children's Decongestant ® Sudafed PE Congestion ® Suphedrin PE ®









[ Simethicone pronounced as (sye meth' i kone) To use the sharing features on this page, please enable JavaScript. Why is this medication prescribed? How should this medicine be used? What special precautions should I follow? What should I do if I forget a dose? What side effects can this medication cause? What should I know about storage and disposal of this medication? What other information should I know? Brand names Why is this medication prescribed? Simethicone is used to treat the symptoms of gas such as uncomfortable or painful pressure, fullness, and bloating. This medication is sometimes prescribed for other uses; ask your doctor or pharmacist for more information. How should this medicine be used? Simethicone comes as regular tablets, chewable tablets, capsules, and liquid to take by mouth. It usually is taken four times a day, after meals and at bedtime. Follow the directions on the package or on your prescription label carefully, and ask your doctor or pharmacist to explain any part you do not understand. Take simethicone exactly as directed. Do not take more or less of it or take it more often than prescribed by your doctor. Swallow the regular tablets and capsules whole. Chewable tablets should be chewed thoroughly before being swallowed; do not swallow them whole. Do not take more than six simethicone tablets or eight simethicone capsules each day unless your doctor tells you to. The liquid may be mixed with 1 ounce (30 milliliters) of cool water or infant formula. What special precautions should I follow? Before taking simethicone, tell your doctor and pharmacist if you are allergic to simethicone or any other drugs. tell your doctor and pharmacist what prescription and nonprescription medications you are taking, including vitamins. tell your doctor if you are pregnant, plan to become pregnant, or are breast-feeding. If you become pregnant while taking simethicone, call your doctor. What should I do if I forget a dose? If you are taking simethicone on a regular schedule, take the missed dose as soon you remember it. However, if it is almost time for the next dose, skip the missed dose and continue your regular dosing schedule. Do not take a double dose to make up for a missed one. What side effects can this medication cause? When taken as directed, simethicone usually has no side effects. What should I know about storage and disposal of this medication? Keep this medication in the container it came in, tightly closed, and out of reach of children. Store it at room temperature and away from excess heat and moisture (not in the bathroom). It is important to keep all medication out of sight and reach of children as many containers (such as weekly pill minders and those for eye drops, creams, patches, and inhalers) are not child-resistant and young children can open them easily. To protect young children from poisoning, always lock safety caps and immediately place the medication in a safe location – one that is up and away and out of their sight and reach. http://www.upandaway.org Unneeded medications should be disposed of in special ways to ensure that pets, children, and other people cannot consume them. However, you should not flush this medication down the toilet. Instead, the best way to dispose of your medication is through a medicine take-back program. Talk to your pharmacist or contact your local garbage/recycling department to learn about take-back programs in your community. See the FDA's Safe Disposal of Medicines website ( http://goo.gl/c4Rm4p ) for more information if you do not have access to a take-back program. What other information should I know? Ask your doctor or pharmacist any questions you have about taking this medicine. It is important for you to keep a written list of all of the prescription and nonprescription (over-the-counter) medicines you are taking, as well as any products such as vitamins, minerals, or other dietary supplements. You should bring this list with you each time you visit a doctor or if you are admitted to a hospital. It is also important information to carry with you in case of emergencies. Brand names Alka-Seltzer ® Anti-Gas Colic Drops Colicon ® Degas ® Flatulex ® Drops Gas Aide ® Gas-X ® Genasyme ® Maalox ® Anti-Gas Majorcon ® Micon-80 ® Mylanta ® Gas Mylaval ® Mylicon ® Mytab ® Gas Phazyme ® SonoRx ®









[ Alogliptin pronounced as (al'' oh glip' tin)  Alogliptin is used along with diet and exercise to lower blood sugar levels in patients with type 2 diabetes (condition in which blood sugar is too high because the body does not produce or use insulin normally). Alogliptin is in a class of medications called dipeptidyl peptidase-4 (DPP-4) inhibitors. It works by increasing the amount of insulin in the body to control blood sugar. Alogliptin is not used to treat type 1 diabetes (condition in which the body does not produce insulin and, therefore, cannot control the amount of sugar in the blood) or diabetic ketoacidosis (a serious condition that may develop if high blood sugar is not treated). Over time, people who have diabetes and high blood sugar can develop serious or life-threatening complications, including heart disease, stroke, kidney problems, nerve damage, and eye problems. Taking medication(s), making lifestyle changes (e.g., diet, exercise, quitting smoking), and regularly checking your blood sugar may help to manage your diabetes and improve your health. This therapy may also decrease your chances of having a heart attack, stroke, or other diabetes-related complications such as kidney failure, nerve damage (numb, cold legs or feet; decreased sexual ability in men and women), eye problems, including changes or loss of vision, or gum disease. Your doctor and other healthcare providers will talk to you about the best way to manage your diabetes. How should this medicine be used? Alogliptin comes as a tablet to take by mouth. It is usually taken with or without food once a day. Take alogliptin at around the same time every day. Follow the directions on your prescription label carefully, and ask your doctor or pharmacist to explain any part you do not understand. Take alogliptin exactly as directed. Do not take more or less of it or take it more often than prescribed by your doctor. Alogliptin controls diabetes but does not cure it. Continue to take alogliptin even if you feel well. Do not stop taking alogliptin without talking to your doctor. Your doctor or pharmacist will give you the manufacturer's patient information sheet (Medication Guide) when you begin treatment with alogliptin and each time you refill your prescription. Read the information carefully and ask your doctor or pharmacist if you have any questions. You can also visit the Food and Drug Administration (FDA) website ( http://www.fda.gov/Drugs/DrugSafety/ucm085729.htm ) or the manufacturer's website to obtain the Medication Guide. Other uses for this medicine This medication may be prescribed for other uses; ask your doctor or pharmacist for more information. What special precautions should I follow? Before taking alogliptin, tell your doctor and pharmacist if you are allergic to alogliptin; other DPP-4 inhibitors including linagliptin (Tradjenta, in Glyxambi, in Jentadueto), saxagliptin (Onglyza, in Kombiglyze), sitagliptin (Januvia, in Janumet); any other medications, or any of the ingredients in alogliptin tablets. Ask your pharmacist or check the Medication Guide for a list of the ingredients. Tell your doctor and pharmacist what prescription and nonprescription medications, vitamins, nutritional supplements, and herbal products you are taking or plan to take while taking alogliptin. Your doctor may need to change the doses of your medications or monitor you carefully for side effects.. tell your doctor if you drink or have ever drunk large amounts of alcohol and if you have or have ever had pancreatitis (swelling of the pancreas), gallstones, heart failure, or kidney or liver disease. tell your doctor if you are pregnant, plan to become pregnant, or are breast-feeding. If you become pregnant while taking alogliptin, call your doctor. if you are having surgery including dental surgery, tell the doctor or dentist that you are taking alogliptin. talk to your doctor about what you should do if you get hurt or if you develop a fever or infection. These conditions may affect your blood sugar and the amount of alogliptin you may need. What special dietary instructions should I follow? Be sure to follow all exercise and dietary recommendations made by your doctor or dietitian. It is important to eat a healthy diet, exercise regularly, and lose weight if necessary. This will help to control your diabetes and help alogliptin work more effectively. What should I do if I forget a dose? Take the missed dose as soon as you remember it. However, if it is almost time for the next dose, skip the missed dose and continue your regular dosing schedule. Do not take a double dose to make up for a missed one. What side effects can this medication cause? This medication may cause changes in your blood sugar. You should know the symptoms of high and low blood sugar and what to do if you develop these symptoms. Alogliptin may cause side effects. Tell your doctor if any of these symptoms are severe or do not go away: headache stuffy or runny nose sore throat joint pain Some side effects can be serious. If you experience any of these symptoms, stop taking alogliptin and call your doctor immediately or get emergency medical treatment: severe stomach pain that may move to your back vomiting excessive tiredness loss of appetite pain in the right upper area of the stomach dark urine yellowing of the skin or eyes fever blisters skin peeling rash hives itching swelling of the eyes, face, lips, tongue, or throat hoarseness difficulty breathing or swallowing shortness of breath, especially when lying down swelling of the feet, ankles, or legs sudden weight gain Alogliptin may cause other side effects. Call your doctor if you have any unusual problems while taking this medication. If you experience a serious side effect, you or your doctor may send a report to the Food and Drug Administration's (FDA) MedWatch Adverse Event Reporting program online ( http://www.fda.gov/Safety/MedWatch ) or by phone (1-800-332-1088). What should I know about storage and disposal of this medication? Keep this medication in the container it came in, tightly closed, and out of reach of children. Store it at room temperature and away from excess heat and moisture (not in the bathroom). Unneeded medications should be disposed of in special ways to ensure that pets, children, and other people cannot consume them. However, you should not flush this medication down the toilet. Instead, the best way to dispose of your medication is through a medicine take-back program. Talk to your pharmacist or contact your local garbage/recycling department to learn about take-back programs in your community. See the FDA's Safe Disposal of Medicines website ( http://goo.gl/c4Rm4p ) for more information if you do not have access to a take-back program. It is important to keep all medication out of sight and reach of children as many containers (such as weekly pill minders and those for eye drops, creams, patches, and inhalers) are not child-resistant and young children can open them easily. To protect young children from poisoning, always lock safety caps and immediately place the medication in a safe location – one that is up and away and out of their sight and reach. http://www.upandaway.org In case of emergency/overdose In case of overdose, call the poison control helpline at 1-800-222-1222. Information is also available online at https://www.poisonhelp.org/help . If the victim has collapsed, had a seizure, has trouble breathing, or can't be awakened, immediately call emergency services at 911. What other information should I know? Keep all appointments with your doctor and the laboratory. Your doctor will probably order certain laboratory tests to check your body's response to alogliptin. Your blood sugar and glycosylated hemoglobin (HbA1c) should be checked regularly to determine your response to alogliptin. Your doctor may also tell you how to check your response to alogliptin by measuring your blood or urine sugar levels at home. Follow these directions carefully. You should always wear a diabetic identification bracelet to be sure you get proper treatment in an emergency. Do not let anyone else take your medication. Ask your pharmacist any questions you have about refilling your prescription. It is important for you to keep a written list of all of the prescription and nonprescription (over-the-counter) medicines you are taking, as well as any products such as vitamins, minerals, or other dietary supplements. You should bring this list with you each time you visit a doctor or if you are admitted to a hospital. It is also important information to carry with you in case of emergencies. Brand names Nesina ®





[ Aspirin pronounced as (as' pir in) To use the sharing features on this page, please enable JavaScript. Why is this medication prescribed? How should this medicine be used? Other uses for this medicine What special precautions should I follow? What special dietary instructions should I follow? What should I do if I forget a dose? What side effects can this medication cause? What should I know about storage and disposal of this medication? In case of emergency/overdose What other information should I know? Brand names Other names Why is this medication prescribed? Prescription aspirin is used to relieve the symptoms of rheumatoid arthritis (arthritis caused by swelling of the lining of the joints), osteoarthritis (arthritis caused by breakdown of the lining of the joints), systemic lupus erythematosus (condition in which the immune system attacks the joints and organs and causes pain and swelling) and certain other rheumatologic conditions (conditions in which the immune system attacks parts of the body). Nonprescription aspirin is used to reduce fever and to relieve mild to moderate pain from headaches, menstrual periods, arthritis, toothaches, and muscle aches. Nonprescription aspirin is also used to prevent heart attacks in people who have had a heart attack in the past or who have angina (chest pain that occurs when the heart does not get enough oxygen). Nonprescription aspirin is also used to reduce the risk of death in people who are experiencing or who have recently experienced a heart attack. Nonprescription aspirin is also used to prevent ischemic strokes (strokes that occur when a blood clot blocks the flow of blood to the brain) or mini-strokes (strokes that occur when the flow of blood to the brain is blocked for a short time) in people who have had this type of stroke or mini-stroke in the past. Aspirin will not prevent hemorrhagic strokes (strokes caused by bleeding in the brain). Aspirin is in a group of medications called salicylates. It works by stopping the production of certain natural substances that cause fever, pain, swelling, and blood clots. Aspirin is also available in combination with other medications such as antacids, pain relievers, and cough and cold medications. This monograph only includes information about the use of aspirin alone. If you are taking a combination product, read the information on the package or prescription label or ask your doctor or pharmacist for more information. How should this medicine be used? Prescription aspirin comes as an extended-release (long-acting) tablet. Nonprescription aspirin comes as a regular tablet, a delayed-release (releases the medication in the intestine to prevent damage to the stomach) tablet, a chewable tablet, powder, and a gum to take by mouth. Prescription aspirin is usually taken two or more times a day. Nonprescription aspirin is usually taken once a day to lower the risk of a heart attack or stroke. Nonprescription aspirin is usually taken every 4 to 6 hours as needed to treat fever or pain. Follow the directions on the package or prescription label carefully, and ask your doctor or pharmacist to explain any part you do not understand. Take aspirin exactly as directed. Do not take more or less of it or take it more often than directed by the package label or prescribed by your doctor. Swallow the extended-release tablets whole with a full glass of water. Do not break, crush, or chew them. Swallow the delayed-release tablets with a full glass of water. Chewable aspirin tablets may be chewed, crushed, or swallowed whole. Drink a full glass of water, immediately after taking these tablets. Ask a doctor before you give aspirin to your child or teenager. Aspirin may cause Reye's syndrome (a serious condition in which fat builds up on the brain, liver, and other body organs) in children and teenagers, especially if they have a virus such as chicken pox or the flu. If you have had oral surgery or surgery to remove your tonsils in the last 7 days, talk to your doctor about which types of aspirin are safe for you. Delayed-release tablets begin to work some time after they are taken. Do not take delayed-release tablets for fever or pain that must be relieved quickly. Stop taking aspirin and call your doctor if your fever lasts longer than 3 days, if your pain lasts longer than 10 days, or if the part of your body that was painful becomes red or swollen. You may have a condition that must be treated by a doctor. Other uses for this medicine Aspirin is also sometimes used to treat rheumatic fever (a serious condition that may develop after a strep throat infection and may cause swelling of the heart valves) and Kawasaki disease (an illness that may cause heart problems in children). Aspirin is also sometimes used to lower the risk of blood clots in patients who have artificial heart valves or certain other heart conditions and to prevent certain complications of pregnancy. What special precautions should I follow? Before taking aspirin, tell your doctor and pharmacist if you are allergic to aspirin, other medications for pain or fever, tartrazine dye, or any other medications. tell your doctor and pharmacist what prescription and nonprescription medications, vitamins, nutritional supplements, and herbal products you are taking or plan to take. Be sure to mention any of the following: acetazolamide (Diamox); angiotensin-converting enzyme (ACE) inhibitors such as benazepril (Lotensin), captopril (Capoten), enalapril (Vasotec), fosinopril (Monopril), lisinopril (Prinivil, Zestril), moexipril (Univasc), perindopril, (Aceon), quinapril (Accupril), ramipril (Altace), and trandolapril (Mavik); anticoagulants ('blood thinners') such as warfarin (Coumadin) and heparin; beta blockers such as atenolol (Tenormin), labetalol (Normodyne), metoprolol (Lopressor, Toprol XL), nadolol (Corgard), and propranolol (Inderal); diuretics ('water pills'); medications for diabetes or arthritis; medications for gout such as probenecid and sulfinpyrazone (Anturane); methotrexate (Trexall); other nonsteroidal anti-inflammatory drugs (NSAIDs) such as naproxen (Aleve, Naprosyn); phenytoin (Dilantin); and valproic acid (Depakene, Depakote). Your doctor may need to change the doses of your medications or monitor you more carefully for side effects. if you are taking aspirin on a regular basis to prevent heart attack or stroke, do not take ibuprofen (Advil, Motrin) to treat pain or fever without talking to your doctor. Your doctor will probably tell you to allow some time to pass between taking your daily dose of aspirin and taking a dose of ibuprofen. tell your doctor if you have or have ever had asthma, frequent stuffed or runny nose, or nasal polyps (growths on the linings of the nose). If you have these conditions, there is a risk that you will have an allergic reaction to aspirin. Your doctor may tell you that you should not take aspirin. tell your doctor if you often have heartburn, upset stomach, or stomach pain and if you have or have ever had ulcers, anemia, bleeding problems such as hemophilia, or kidney or liver disease. tell your doctor if you are pregnant, you plan to become pregnant, or if you are breast-feeding. Low dose aspirin 81-mg may be taken during pregnancy, but aspirin doses greater that 81 mg may harm the fetus and cause problems with delivery if it is taken around 20 weeks or later during pregnancy. Do not take aspirin doses greater that 81 mg (e.g., 325 mg) around or after 20 weeks of pregnancy, unless told to do so by your doctor. If you become pregnant while taking aspirin or aspirin containing medications, call your doctor. if you are having surgery, including dental surgery, tell the doctor or dentist that you are taking aspirin. if you drink three or more alcoholic drinks every day, ask your doctor if you should take aspirin or other medications for pain and fever. What special dietary instructions should I follow? Unless your doctor tells you otherwise, continue your normal diet. What should I do if I forget a dose? If your doctor has told you to take aspirin on a regular basis and you miss a dose, take the missed dose as soon as you remember it. However, if it is almost time for the next dose, skip the missed dose and continue your regular dosing schedule. Do not take a double dose to make up for a missed one. What side effects can this medication cause? Aspirin may cause side effects. Tell your doctor if any of these symptoms are severe or do not go away: nausea vomiting stomach pain heartburn Some side effects can be serious. If you experience any of the following symptoms, call your doctor immediately: hives rash swelling of the eyes, face, lips, tongue, or throat wheezing or difficulty breathing hoarseness fast heartbeat fast breathing cold, clammy skin ringing in the ears loss of hearing bloody vomit vomit that looks like coffee grounds bright red blood in stools black or tarry stools Aspirin may cause other side effects. Call your doctor if you experience any unusual problems while you are taking this medication. If you experience a serious side effect, you or your doctor may send a report to the Food and Drug Administration's (FDA) MedWatch Adverse Event Reporting program online ( http://www.fda.gov/Safety/MedWatch ) or by phone (1-800-332-1088). What should I know about storage and disposal of this medication? Keep this medication in the container it came in, tightly closed, and out of reach of children. Store it at room temperature and away from excess heat and moisture (not in the bathroom). Dispose of any tablets that have a strong vinegar smell. It is important to keep all medication out of sight and reach of children as many containers (such as weekly pill minders and those for eye drops, creams, patches, and inhalers) are not child-resistant and young children can open them easily. To protect young children from poisoning, always lock safety caps and immediately place the medication in a safe location – one that is up and away and out of their sight and reach. http://www.upandaway.org Unneeded medications should be disposed of in special ways to ensure that pets, children, and other people cannot consume them. However, you should not flush this medication down the toilet. Instead, the best way to dispose of your medication is through a medicine take-back program. Talk to your pharmacist or contact your local garbage/recycling department to learn about take-back programs in your community. See the FDA's Safe Disposal of Medicines website ( http://goo.gl/c4Rm4p ) for more information if you do not have access to a take-back program. In case of emergency/overdose In case of overdose, call the poison control helpline at 1-800-222-1222. Information is also available online at https://www.poisonhelp.org/help . If the victim has collapsed, had a seizure, has trouble breathing, or can't be awakened, immediately call emergency services at 911. Symptoms of overdose may include: burning pain in the throat or stomach vomiting decreased urination fever restlessness irritability talking a lot and saying things that do not make sense fear or nervousness dizziness double vision uncontrollable shaking of a part of the body confusion abnormally excited mood hallucination (seeing things or hearing voices that are not there) seizures drowsiness loss of consciousness for a period of time What other information should I know? Keep all appointments with your doctor. If you are taking prescription aspirin, do not let anyone else take your medication. Ask your pharmacist any questions you have about refilling your prescription. It is important for you to keep a written list of all of the prescription and nonprescription (over-the-counter) medicines you are taking, as well as any products such as vitamins, minerals, or other dietary supplements. You should bring this list with you each time you visit a doctor or if you are admitted to a hospital. It is also important information to carry with you in case of emergencies. Brand names Acuprin ® Anacin ® Aspirin Regimen Ascriptin ® Aspergum ® Aspidrox ® Aspir-Mox ® Aspirtab ® Aspir-trin ® Bayer ® Aspirin Bufferin ® Buffex ® Easprin ® Ecotrin ® Empirin ® Entaprin ® Entercote ® Fasprin ® Genacote ® Gennin-FC ® Genprin ® Halfprin ® Magnaprin ® Miniprin ® Minitabs ® Ridiprin ® Sloprin ® Uni-Buff ® Uni-Tren ® Valomag ® Zorprin ®











[ Brimonidine Ophthalmic pronounced as (bri moe' ni deen) To use the sharing features on this page, please enable JavaScript. Why is this medication prescribed? How should this medicine be used? Other uses for this medicine What special precautions should I follow? What should I do if I forget a dose? What side effects can this medication cause? What should I know about storage and disposal of this medication? In case of emergency/overdose What other information should I know? Brand names Why is this medication prescribed? Ophthalmic brimonidine is used to lower pressure in the eyes in patients who have glaucoma (high pressure in the eyes that may damage nerves and cause vision loss) and ocular hypertension (pressure in the eyes that is higher than normal but not high enough to cause vision loss). Brimonidine is in a class of drugs called alpha adrenergic agonists. Brimonidine works by decreasing the amount of fluid in the eyes. How should this medicine be used? Ophthalmic brimonidine comes as a solution (liquid) to instill in the eyes. It is usually instilled in the affected eye(s) 3 times a day. Use brimonidine eye drops at around the same times every day, and try to space your 3 daily doses about 8 hours apart. Follow the directions on your prescription label carefully, and ask your doctor or pharmacist to explain any part you do not understand. Use brimonidine eye drops exactly as directed. Do not use more or less of them or use them more often than prescribed by your doctor. Brimonidine eye drops may control your condition, but will not cure it. Continue to use brimonidine eye drops even if you feel well. Do not stop using brimonidine eye drops without talking to your doctor. To instill the eye drops, follow these steps: Wash your hands thoroughly with soap and water. Check the dropper tip to make sure that it is not chipped or cracked. Avoid touching the dropper tip against your eye or anything else; eye drops and droppers must be kept clean. While tilting your head back, pull down the lower lid of your eye with your index finger to form a pocket. Hold the dropper (tip down) with the other hand, as close to the eye as possible without touching it. Brace the remaining fingers of that hand against your face. While looking up, gently squeeze the dropper so that a single drop falls into the pocket made by the lower eyelid. Remove your index finger from the lower eyelid. Close your eye for 2 to 3 minutes and tip your head down as though looking at the floor. Try not to blink or squeeze your eyelids. Place a finger on the tear duct and apply gentle pressure. Wipe any excess liquid from your face with a tissue. If you are to use more than one drop in the same eye, wait at least 5 minutes before instilling the next drop. Replace and tighten the cap on the dropper bottle. Do not wipe or rinse the dropper tip. Wash your hands to remove any medication. Other uses for this medicine This medication may be prescribed for other uses; ask your doctor or pharmacist for more information. What special precautions should I follow? Before using brimonidine eye drops, tell your doctor or pharmacist if you are allergic to brimonidine eye drops or any other medications. Tell your doctor and pharmacist what prescription and nonprescription medications, vitamins, nutritional supplements, and herbal products you are taking or plan to take while using brimonidine eye drops. Your doctor may need to change the doses of your medications or monitor you carefully for side effects. if you are using any other topical eye medications, instill them 5 minutes before or 5 minutes after you instill brimonidine eye drops. tell your doctor if you often feel dizzy when you sit or stand from a lying position and if you have or have ever had depression; conditions that affect your blood circulation including Raynaud's disease (a condition that causes attacks of low blood circulation to the fingers and toes), thromboangiitis obliterans (a condition that causes poor blood circulation in the hands and feet), and problems with blood flow to your heart or brain; or heart, kidney, or liver disease. tell your doctor if you are pregnant or plan to become pregnant. If you become pregnant while you are using brimonidine eye drops, call your doctor. Do not breast-feed while you are using brimonidine eye drops. if you are having surgery, including dental surgery, tell your doctor or dentist that you are using brimonidine eye drops. you should know that brimonidine eye drops may make you drowsy. Your vision may be blurry for a few minutes after you instill the eye drops. Do not drive a car or operate machinery until you know how this medication affects you. ask your doctor about the safe use of alcohol while you are using brimonidine eye drops. Alcohol can make the drowsiness caused by brimonidine eye drops worse. tell your doctor if you wear soft contact lenses. Remove your soft contact lenses before instilling brimonidine eye drops and wait at least 15 minutes after using the medication to replace your lenses. What should I do if I forget a dose? Instill the missed dose as soon as you remember it. However, if is almost time for the next dose, skip the missed dose and continue your regular dosing schedule. Do not instill a double dose to make up for a missed one. What side effects can this medication cause? Brimonidine eye drops may cause side effects. Tell your doctor if any of these symptoms are severe or do not go away: itchy, irritated, red, stinging, or burning eyes dry eyes watery or runny eyes red or swollen eyelids sensitivity to light blurred vision headache drowsiness difficulty falling asleep or staying asleep dry mouth runny nose and other cold symptoms cough sore throat flu-like symptoms pain or pressure in the face heartburn Some side effects can be serious. If you experience any of the following symptoms, call your doctor immediately: rash difficulty breathing seeing specks or flashes of light blind spots fainting dizziness nausea If you experience a serious side effect, you or your doctor may send a report to the Food and Drug Administration's (FDA) MedWatch Adverse Event Reporting program online ( http://www.fda.gov/Safety/MedWatch ) or by phone (1-800-332-1088). What should I know about storage and disposal of this medication? Keep this medication in the container it came in, tightly closed, and out of reach of children. Store it at room temperature and away from excess heat and moisture (not in the bathroom). Unneeded medications should be disposed of in special ways to ensure that pets, children, and other people cannot consume them. However, you should not flush this medication down the toilet. Instead, the best way to dispose of your medication is through a medicine take-back program. Talk to your pharmacist or contact your local garbage/recycling department to learn about take-back programs in your community. See the FDA's Safe Disposal of Medicines website ( http://goo.gl/c4Rm4p ) for more information if you do not have access to a take-back program. It is important to keep all medication out of sight and reach of children as many containers (such as weekly pill minders and those for eye drops, creams, patches, and inhalers) are not child-resistant and young children can open them easily. To protect young children from poisoning, always lock safety caps and immediately place the medication in a safe location – one that is up and away and out of their sight and reach. http://www.upandaway.org In case of emergency/overdose In case of overdose, call the poison control helpline at 1-800-222-1222. Information is also available online at https://www.poisonhelp.org/help . If the victim has collapsed, had a seizure, has trouble breathing, or can't be awakened, immediately call emergency services at 911. What other information should I know? Keep all appointments with your doctor. Do not let anyone else use your medication. Ask your pharmacist any questions you have about refilling your prescription. It is important for you to keep a written list of all of the prescription and nonprescription (over-the-counter) medicines you are taking, as well as any products such as vitamins, minerals, or other dietary supplements. You should bring this list with you each time you visit a doctor or if you are admitted to a hospital. It is also important information to carry with you in case of emergencies. Brand names Alphagan P ®

[ Betamethasone Topical pronounced as (bay ta meth' a sone) To use the sharing features on this page, please enable JavaScript. Why is this medication prescribed? How should this medicine be used? Other uses for this medicine What special precautions should I follow? What should I do if I forget a dose? What side effects can this medication cause? What should I know about storage and disposal of this medication? In case of emergency/overdose What other information should I know? Brand names Why is this medication prescribed? Betamethasone topical is used to treat the itching, redness, dryness, crusting, scaling, inflammation, and discomfort of various skin conditions, including psoriasis (a skin disease in which red, scaly patches form on some areas of the body) and eczema (a skin disease that causes the skin to be dry and itchy and to sometimes develop red, scaly rashes). Betamethasone is in a class of medications called corticosteroids. It works by activating natural substances in the skin to reduce swelling, redness, and itching. How should this medicine be used? Betamethasone comes in ointment, cream, lotion, gel, and aerosol (spray) in various strengths for use on the skin and as a foam to apply to the scalp. It is usually applied once or twice daily. Follow the directions on your prescription label carefully, and ask your doctor or pharmacist to explain any part you do not understand. Use betamethasone exactly as directed. Do not use more or less of it or use it more often than prescribed by your doctor. Do not apply it to other areas of your body or use it to treat other skin conditions unless directed to do so by your doctor. Your skin condition should improve during the first 2 weeks of your treatment. Call your doctor if your symptoms do not improve during this time. To use betamethasone topical, apply a small amount of ointment, cream, solution, gel, or lotion to cover the affected area of skin with a thin even film and rub it in gently. To use the foam on your scalp, part your hair, apply a small amount of the medicine on the affected area, and rub it in gently. You may wash your hair as usual but not right after applying the medicine. Betamethasone foam may catch fire. Stay away from open fire, flames, and do not smoke while you are applying betamethasone foam, and for a short time afterward. This medication is only for use on the skin. Do not let betamethasone topical get into your eyes or mouth and do not swallow it. Avoid use in the genital and rectal areas and in skin creases and armpits unless directed by your doctor. If you are using betamethasone on a child's diaper area, do not use tight-fitting diapers or plastic pants. Such use may increase side effects. Do not apply other skin preparations or products on the treated area without talking with your doctor. Do not wrap or bandage the treated area unless your doctor tells you that you should. Such use may increase side effects. Call your doctor if the treated area gets worse or if burning, swelling, redness, or oozing of pus develops. Other uses for this medicine This medication may be prescribed for other uses; ask your doctor or pharmacist for more information. What special precautions should I follow? Before using betamethasone, tell your doctor and pharmacist if you are allergic to betamethasone, any other medications, or any of the ingredients in betamethasone topical products. Ask your pharmacist for a list of the ingredients. tell your doctor and pharmacist what prescription and nonprescription medications, vitamins, and nutritional supplements you are taking or plan to take. Be sure to mention the following: other corticosteroid medications and other topical medications. tell your doctor if you have an infection or have ever had diabetes, liver disease, or Cushing's syndrome (an abnormal condition that is caused by excess hormones [corticosteroids]). . tell your doctor if you are pregnant, plan to become pregnant, or are breastfeeding. If you become pregnant while using betamethasone topical, call your doctor immediately. if you are having surgery, including dental surgery, tell the doctor or dentist that you are using betamethasone topical. What should I do if I forget a dose? Apply the missed dose as soon as you remember it. However, if it is almost time for the next dose, skip the missed dose and continue your regular dosing schedule. Do not apply a double dose to make up for a missed one. What side effects can this medication cause? Betamethasone may cause side effects. Tell your doctor if any of these symptoms are severe or do not go away: burning, itching, irritation, stinging, redness, or dryness of the skin acne unwanted hair growth skin color changes bruising or shiny skin tiny red bumps or rash around the mouth small white or red bumps on the skin If you experience any of the following symptoms, call your doctor immediately: severe rash redness, swelling, or other signs of skin infection in the place where you applied betamethasone Children who use betamethasone topical may have an increased risk of side effects including slowed growth and delayed weight gain. Talk to your child's doctor about the risks of applying this medication to your child's skin. Betamethasone topical may cause other side effects. Call your doctor if you have any unusual problems while using this medication. If you experience a serious side effect, you or your doctor may send a report to the Food and Drug Administration's (FDA) MedWatch Adverse Event Reporting program online ( http://www.fda.gov/Safety/MedWatch ) or by phone (1-800-332-1088). What should I know about storage and disposal of this medication? Keep this medication in the container it came in, tightly closed, and out of reach of children. Store it at room temperature and away from excess heat and moisture (not in the bathroom). Do not freeze it.. It is important to keep all medication out of sight and reach of children as many containers (such as weekly pill minders and those for eye drops, creams, patches, and inhalers) are not child-resistant and young children can open them easily. To protect young children from poisoning, always lock safety caps and immediately place the medication in a safe location – one that is up and away and out of their sight and reach. http://www.upandaway.org Unneeded medications should be disposed of in special ways to ensure that pets, children, and other people cannot consume them. However, you should not flush this medication down the toilet. Instead, the best way to dispose of your medication is through a medicine take-back program. Talk to your pharmacist or contact your local garbage/recycling department to learn about take-back programs in your community. See the FDA's Safe Disposal of Medicines website ( http://goo.gl/c4Rm4p ) for more information if you do not have access to a take-back program. In case of emergency/overdose If someone swallows betamethasone topical, call your local poison control center at 1-800-222-1222. If the victim has collapsed or is not breathing, call local emergency services at 911. What other information should I know? Keep all appointments with your doctor and the laboratory. Your doctor may order certain lab tests to check your body's response to betamethasone. Do not let anyone else use your medication. Ask your pharmacist any questions you have about refilling your prescription. It is important for you to keep a written list of all of the prescription and nonprescription (over-the-counter) medicines you are taking, as well as any products such as vitamins, minerals, or other dietary supplements. You should bring this list with you each time you visit a doctor or if you are admitted to a hospital. It is also important information to carry with you in case of emergencies. Brand names Alphatrex ® ¶ Beta-Val ® Betaderm ® ¶ Betatrex ® ¶ Celestone ® ¶ Dermabet ® Diprolene ® Diprosone ® ¶ Luxiq ® Sernivo ® Uticort ® ¶ Valisone ® ¶ Valnac ®





[ Psyllium pronounced as (sil' i yum) To use the sharing features on this page, please enable JavaScript. Why is this medication prescribed? How should this medicine be used? Other uses for this medicine What special precautions should I follow? What special dietary instructions should I follow? What should I do if I forget a dose? What side effects can this medication cause? What should I know about storage and disposal of this medication? What other information should I know? Brand names Why is this medication prescribed? Psyllium, a bulk-forming laxative, is used to treat constipation. It absorbs liquid in the intestines, swells, and forms a bulky stool, which is easy to pass. This medication is sometimes prescribed for other uses; ask your doctor or pharmacist for more information. How should this medicine be used? Psyllium comes as a powder, granules, capsule, liquid, and wafer to take by mouth. It usually is taken one to three times daily. Follow the directions on the package or on your prescription label carefully, and ask your doctor or pharmacist to explain any part you do not understand. Take psyllium exactly as directed. Do not take more or less of it or take it more often than prescribed by your doctor. The powder and granules must be mixed with 8 ounces (240 milliliters) of a pleasant tasting liquid, such as fruit juice, right before use. Chew wafers thoroughly. For psyllium to work properly and to prevent side effects, you must drink at least 8 ounces (240 milliliters) of liquid when you take it. Do not take psyllium for longer than 1 week unless your doctor tells you to. Other uses for this medicine Your doctor also may prescribe psyllium to treat diarrhea or high cholesterol. Talk to your doctor about the possible risks of using this drug for your condition. What special precautions should I follow? Before taking psyllium, tell your doctor and pharmacist if you are allergic to psyllium or any other drugs. tell your doctor and pharmacist what prescription and nonprescription medications, vitamins, nutritional supplements, and herbal products you are taking or plan to take while taking psyllium. Your doctor may need to change the doses of your medications or monitor you carefully for side effects. do not take digoxin (Lanoxin), salicylates (aspirin), or nitrofurantoin (Macrodantin, Furadantin, Macrobid) within 3 hours of taking psyllium. the following nonprescription product may interact with pysillium: aspirin. Be sure to let your doctor and pharmacist know that you are taking this medication before you start taking psyllium. Do not start this medication while taking psyllium without discussing with your healthcare provider. tell your doctor if you have or have ever had diabetes mellitus, heart disease, high blood pressure, kidney disease, rectal bleeding, intestinal blockage, or difficulty swallowing. tell your doctor if you are pregnant, plan to become pregnant, or are breast-feeding. If you become pregnant while taking psyllium, call your doctor. tell your pharmacist or doctor if you are on a low-sugar or low-sodium diet. be careful not to breathe in psyllium powder when mixing a dose. It can cause allergic reactions when accidentally inhaled. What special dietary instructions should I follow? To prevent constipation, drink plenty of fluids, exercise regularly, and eat a high-fiber diet, including whole-grain (e.g., bran) cereals, fruits, and vegetables. What should I do if I forget a dose? If you are taking scheduled doses of psyllium, take the missed dose as soon as you remember it. However, if it is almost time for the next dose, skip the missed dose and continue your dosing schedule. Do not take a double dose to make up for a missed one. What side effects can this medication cause? Psyllium may cause side effects. If you have any of the following symptoms, call your doctor immediately: difficulty breathing stomach pain difficulty swallowing skin rash itching nausea vomiting If you experience a serious side effect, you or your doctor may send a report to the Food and Drug Administration's (FDA) MedWatch Adverse Event Reporting program online ( http://www.fda.gov/Safety/MedWatch ) or by phone (1-800-332-1088). What should I know about storage and disposal of this medication? Keep this medication in the container it came in, tightly closed, and out of reach of children. Store it at room temperature and away from excess heat and moisture (not in the bathroom). Unneeded medications should be disposed of in special ways to ensure that pets, children, and other people cannot consume them. However, you should not flush this medication down the toilet. Instead, the best way to dispose of your medication is through a medicine take-back program. Talk to your pharmacist or contact your local garbage/recycling department to learn about take-back programs in your community. See the FDA's Safe Disposal of Medicines website ( http://goo.gl/c4Rm4p ) for more information if you do not have access to a take-back program. It is important to keep all medication out of sight and reach of children as many containers (such as weekly pill minders and those for eye drops, creams, patches, and inhalers) are not child-resistant and young children can open them easily. To protect young children from poisoning, always lock safety caps and immediately place the medication in a safe location – one that is up and away and out of their sight and reach. http://www.upandaway.org What other information should I know? Ask your doctor or pharmacist any questions you have about taking this medicine. It is important for you to keep a written list of all of the prescription and nonprescription (over-the-counter) medicines you are taking, as well as any products such as vitamins, minerals, or other dietary supplements. You should bring this list with you each time you visit a doctor or if you are admitted to a hospital. It is also important information to carry with you in case of emergencies. Brand names Alramucil ® Cilium ® Fiberall ® Genfiber ® Hydrocil ® Konsyl ® Maalox Daily Fiber Therapy ® Metamucil ® Natural Fiber Therapy ® Natural Vegetable ® Perdiem Fiber ® Reguloid ® Serutan ® Syllact ® Uni-Laxative ® V-Lax ®









[ Diphenhydramine pronounced as (dye fen hye' dra meen)  Diphenhydramine is used to relieve red, irritated, itchy, watery eyes; sneezing; and runny nose caused by hay fever, allergies, or the common cold. Diphenhydramine is also used to relieve cough caused by minor throat or airway irritation. Diphenhydramine is also used to prevent and treat motion sickness, and to treat insomnia (difficulty falling asleep or staying asleep). Diphenhydramine is also used to control abnormal movements in people who have early stage parkinsonian syndrome (a disorder of the nervous system that causes difficulties with movement, muscle control, and balance) or who are experiencing movement problems as a side effect of a medication. Diphenhydramine will relieve the symptoms of these conditions but will not treat the cause of the symptoms or speed recovery. Diphenhydramine should not be used to cause sleepiness in children. Diphenhydramine is in a class of medications called antihistamines. It works by blocking the action of histamine, a substance in the body that causes allergic symptoms. How should this medicine be used? Diphenhydramine comes as a tablet, a rapidly disintegrating (dissolving) tablet, a capsule, a liquid-filled capsule, a dissolving strip, powder, and a liquid to take by mouth. When diphenhydramine is used for the relief of allergies, cold, and cough symptoms, it is usually taken every 4 to 6 hours. When diphenhydramine is used to treat motion sickness, it is usually taken 30 minutes before departure and, if needed, before meals and at bedtime. When diphenhydramine is used to treat insomnia it is taken at bedtime (30 minutes before planned sleep). When diphenhydramine is used to treat abnormal movements, it is usually taken three times a day at first and then taken 4 times a day. Follow the directions on the package or on your prescription label carefully, and ask your doctor or pharmacist to explain any part you do not understand. Take diphenhydramine exactly as directed. Do not take more or less of it or take it more often than prescribed by your doctor or directed on the label. Diphenhydramine comes alone and in combination with pain relievers, fever reducers, and decongestants. Ask your doctor or pharmacist for advice on which product is best for your symptoms. Check nonprescription cough and cold product labels carefully before using two or more products at the same time. These products may contain the same active ingredient(s) and taking them together could cause you to receive an overdose. This is especially important if you will be giving cough and cold medications to a child. Nonprescription cough and cold combination products, including products that contain diphenhydramine, can cause serious side effects or death in young children. Do not give these products to children younger than 4 years of age. If you give these products to children 4 to 11 years of age, use caution and follow the package directions carefully. If you are giving diphenhydramine or a combination product that contains diphenhydramine to a child, read the package label carefully to be sure that it is the right product for a child of that age. Do not give diphenhydramine products that are made for adults to children. Before you give a diphenhydramine product to a child, check the package label to find out how much medication the child should receive. Give the dose that matches the child's age on the chart. Ask the child's doctor if you don't know how much medication to give the child. If you are taking the liquid, do not use a household spoon to measure your dose. Use the measuring spoon or cup that came with the medication or use a spoon made especially for measuring medication. If you are taking the dissolving strips, place the strips on your tongue one at a time and swallow after they melt. If you are taking the rapidly dissolving tablets, place a tablet on your tongue and close your mouth. The tablet will quickly dissolve and can be swallowed with or without water. If you are taking the capsules, swallow them whole. Do not try to break the capsules. Other uses for this medicine This medication is sometimes prescribed for other uses; ask your doctor or pharmacist for more information. What special precautions should I follow? Before taking diphenhydramine, tell your doctor and pharmacist if you are allergic to diphenhydramine, any other medications, or any of the ingredients in diphenhydramine preparations. Ask your doctor or pharmacist or check the package label for a list of the ingredients. tell your doctor and pharmacist what prescription and nonprescription medications, vitamins, nutritional supplements, and herbal products you are taking or plan to take. Be sure to mention any of the following: other diphenhydramine products (even those that are used on the skin); other medications for colds, hay fever, or allergies; medications for anxiety, depression, or seizures; muscle relaxants; narcotic medications for pain; sedatives; sleeping pills; and tranquilizers. tell your doctor if you have or have ever had asthma, emphysema, chronic bronchitis, or other types of lung disease; glaucoma (a condition in which increased pressure in the eye can lead to gradual loss of vision); ulcers; difficulty urinating (due to an enlarged prostate gland); heart disease; high blood pressure; seizures; or an overactive thyroid gland.If you will be using the liquid, tell your doctor if you have been told to follow a low-sodium diet. tell your doctor if you are pregnant, plan to become pregnant, or are breast-feeding. If you become pregnant while taking diphenhydramine, call your doctor. you should know that generally diphenhydramine should not be used in older adults, except to manage serious allergic reactions, because it is not as safe or effective as other medication(s) to treat your condition. If you are 65 years of age or older, talk to your doctor about the risks and benefits of taking this medication. if you are having surgery, including dental surgery, tell the doctor or dentist that you are taking diphenhydramine. you should know that this medication may make you drowsy. Do not drive a car or operate machinery until you know how this medication affects you. remember that alcohol can add to the drowsiness caused by this medication. Avoid alcoholic beverages while you are taking this medication. if you have phenylketonuria (PKU, an inherited condition in which a special diet must be followed to prevent damage to your brain that can cause severe intellectual disability), you should know that some brands of chewable tablets and rapidly disintegrating tablets that contain diphenhydramine may be sweetened with aspartame, a source of phenylalanine. What special dietary instructions should I follow? Unless your doctor tells you otherwise, continue your normal diet. What should I do if I forget a dose? Diphenhydramine is usually taken as needed. If your doctor has told you to take diphenhydramine regularly, take the missed dose as soon as you remember it. However, if it is almost time for the next dose, skip the missed dose and continue your regular dosing schedule. Do not take a double dose to make up for a missed one. What side effects can this medication cause? Diphenhydramine may cause side effects. Tell your doctor if any of these symptoms are severe or do not go away: dry mouth, nose, and throat drowsiness dizziness nausea vomiting loss of appetite constipation increased chest congestion headache muscle weakness excitement (especially in children) nervousness Some side effects may be serious. If you experience any of the following symptoms, call your doctor immediately: vision problems difficulty urinating or painful urination Diphenhydramine may cause other side effects. Call your doctor if you experience any unusual problems while you are taking this medication. If you experience a serious side effect, you or your doctor may send a report to the Food and Drug Administration's (FDA) MedWatch Adverse Event Reporting program online ( http://www.fda.gov/Safety/MedWatch ) or by phone (1-800-332-1088). What should I know about storage and disposal of this medication? Keep this medication in the container it came in, tightly closed, and out of reach of children. Store it at room temperature and away from excess heat and moisture (not in the bathroom). It is important to keep all medication out of sight and reach of children as many containers (such as weekly pill minders and those for eye drops, creams, patches, and inhalers) are not child-resistant and young children can open them easily. To protect young children from poisoning, always lock safety caps and immediately place the medication in a safe location – one that is up and away and out of their sight and reach. http://www.upandaway.org Unneeded medications should be disposed of in special ways to ensure that pets, children, and other people cannot consume them. However, you should not flush this medication down the toilet. Instead, the best way to dispose of your medication is through a medicine take-back program. Talk to your pharmacist or contact your local garbage/recycling department to learn about take-back programs in your community. See the FDA's Safe Disposal of Medicines website ( http://goo.gl/c4Rm4p ) for more information if you do not have access to a take-back program. In case of emergency/overdose In case of overdose, call the poison control helpline at 1-800-222-1222. Information is also available online at https://www.poisonhelp.org/help . If the victim has collapsed, had a seizure, has trouble breathing, or can't be awakened, immediately call emergency services at 911. What other information should I know? Ask your pharmacist any questions you have about diphenhydramine. It is important for you to keep a written list of all of the prescription and nonprescription (over-the-counter) medicines you are taking, as well as any products such as vitamins, minerals, or other dietary supplements. You should bring this list with you each time you visit a doctor or if you are admitted to a hospital. It is also important information to carry with you in case of emergencies. Brand names Aler-Dryl ® Allergia-C ® ¶ Allermax ® ¶ Altaryl ® ¶ Banophen ® ¶ Ben Tann ® § Benadryl ® Bromanate AF ® ¶ Compoz Nighttime Sleep Aid ® ¶ Dicopanol ® § Diphedryl ® ¶ Diphen ® ¶ Diphenadryl ® ¶ Diphenhist ® Diphenylin ® ¶ Dytan ® ¶ Hydramine ® ¶ Nytol ® Pardryl ® ¶ PediaCare Children's Allergy ® Siladryl ® Silphen ® Sominex ® Unisom ®



[ Tretinoin Topical pronounced as (tret' i noyn) To use the sharing features on this page, please enable JavaScript. Why is this medication prescribed? How should this medicine be used? Other uses for this medicine What special precautions should I follow? What should I do if I forget a dose? What side effects can this medication cause? What should I know about storage and disposal of this medication? In case of emergency/overdose What other information should I know? Brand names Other names Why is this medication prescribed? Tretinoin (Altreno, Atralin, Avita, Retin-A) is used to treat acne. Tretinoin is also used to reduce fine wrinkles (Refissa and Renova) and to improve spotty discoloration (Renova) and rough feeling skin (Renova) when used along with other skin care and sunlight avoidance programs. Tretinoin is in a class of medications called retinoids. It works by promoting peeling of affected skin areas and unclogging pores. How should this medicine be used? Tretinoin comes as a lotion (Altreno), cream (Avita, Refissa, Renova, Retin-A), and gel (Atralin, Avita, Retin-A). Tretinoin usually is used daily at bedtime. Follow the directions on your prescription label carefully, and ask your doctor or pharmacist to explain any part you do not understand. Use tretinoin exactly as directed. Do not use more or less of it or use it more often than prescribed by your doctor. Tretinoin controls acne but does not cure it. Your acne probably will get worse (red, scaling skin and an increase in acne sores) during the first 7 to10 days that you use this medication. Nevertheless, continue to use it; the acne sores should disappear. Usually 2 to 3 weeks (and sometimes more than 6 weeks) of regular use of tretinoin is required before improvement is seen. Tretinoin may reduce fine wrinkles, spotty discoloration, and rough feeling skin but does not cure them. It may take 3 to 4 months or up to 6 months before you notice improvement. If you stop using tretinoin, the improvement may gradually disappear. Use only nonmedicated cosmetics on cleansed skin. Do not use topical preparations with a lot of alcohol, menthol, spices, or lime (e.g., shaving lotions, astringents, and perfumes); they can sting your skin, especially when you first use tretinoin. Do not use any other topical medications, especially benzoyl peroxide, hair removers, salicylic acid (wart remover), and dandruff shampoos containing sulfur or resorcinol unless your doctor directs you to do so. If you have used any of these topical medications recently, ask your doctor if you should wait before using tretinoin. Your doctor may tell you to use moisturizer to help with dryness. If you are to apply any form of tretinoin, follow these steps: Wash your hands and affected skin area thoroughly with mild, bland soap (not medicated or abrasive soap or soap that dries the skin) and water. To be sure that your skin is thoroughly dry, wait 20 to 30 minutes before applying tretinoin. Use clean fingertips to apply the medication. Use enough medication to cover the affected area with a thin layer. Apply the medication to the affected skin area only. Do not let tretinoin get into your eyes, ears, mouth, corners along your nose, or vaginal area. Do not apply on areas of sunburn. Ask your pharmacist or doctor for a copy of the manufacturer's information for the patient. Other uses for this medicine This medication may be prescribed for other uses; ask your doctor or pharmacist for more information. What special precautions should I follow? Before using tretinoin, tell your doctor and pharmacist if you are allergic to tretinoin, fish (if taking Altreno), any other medications, or any of the ingredients in tretinoin lotion, cream, or gel. Ask your pharmacist for a list of the ingredients.. tell your doctor and pharmacist what prescription and nonprescription medications, vitamins, nutritional supplements, and herbal products you are taking or plan to take. Be sure to mention any of the following: certain antibiotics such as tetracyclines; antihistamines; diuretics ('water pills'); fluoroquinolones such as ciprofloxacin (Cipro), delafloxacin (Baxdela), gemifloxacin (Factive), levofloxacin (Levaquin), moxifloxacin (Avelox), and ofloxacin; medications for mental illness and nausea; or sulfonamides such as co-trimoxazole (Bactrim, Septra), sulfadiazine, sulfamethizole (Urobiotic), and sulfisoxazole (Gantrisin). Your doctor may need to change the doses of your medications or monitor you carefully for side effects. tell your doctor if you have or have ever had eczema (a skin disease), actinic keratoses (scaly spots or patches on the top layer of the skin), skin cancer, or other skin conditions. tell your doctor if you are pregnant, plan to become pregnant, or are breastfeeding. If you become pregnant while using tretinoin, call your doctor. plan to avoid unnecessary or prolonged exposure to sunlight or ultraviolet light (tanning beds and sunlamps) and to wear protective clothing, sunglasses, and sunscreen. Tretinoin may make your skin sensitive to sunlight or ultraviolet light. you should know that weather extremes, such as wind and cold, may be particularly irritating. What should I do if I forget a dose? Apply the missed dose as soon as you remember it. However, if it is almost time for the next dose, skip the missed dose and continue your regular dosing schedule. Do not apply extra cream, lotion, or gel to make up for a missed dose. What side effects can this medication cause? Tretinoin may cause side effects. Tell your doctor if any of these symptoms are severe or do not go away: warmth or slight stinging of the skin lightening or darkening of the skin red, scaling skin increase in acne sores swelling, blistering, or crusting of the skin dryness, pain, burning, stinging, peeling, redness, or flaky skin at the treatment area Some side effects can be serious. If you experience any of these symptoms call your doctor immediately: itching hives pain or discomfort at the treatment area Tretinoin may cause other side effects. Call your doctor if you have any unusual problems while using this medication. If you experience a serious side effect, you or your doctor may send a report to the Food and Drug Administration's (FDA) MedWatch Adverse Event Reporting program online ( http://www.fda.gov/Safety/MedWatch ) or by phone (1-800-332-1088). What should I know about storage and disposal of this medication? Keep this medication in the container it came in, tightly closed, and out of reach of children. Store it at room temperature and away from excess heat and moisture (not in the bathroom). Do not allow the medication to freeze. Unneeded medications should be disposed of in special ways to ensure that pets, children, and other people cannot consume them. However, you should not flush this medication down the toilet. Instead, the best way to dispose of your medication is through a medicine take-back program. Talk to your pharmacist or contact your local garbage/recycling department to learn about take-back programs in your community. See the FDA's Safe Disposal of Medicines website ( http://goo.gl/c4Rm4p ) for more information if you do not have access to a take-back program. It is important to keep all medication out of sight and reach of children as many containers (such as weekly pill minders and those for eye drops, creams, patches, and inhalers) are not child-resistant and young children can open them easily. To protect young children from poisoning, always lock safety caps and immediately place the medication in a safe location – one that is up and away and out of their sight and reach. http://www.upandaway.org In case of emergency/overdose If someone swallows tretinoin, call your local poison control center at 1-800-222-1222. If the victim has collapsed or is not breathing, call local emergency services at 911. What other information should I know? Keep all appointments with your doctor. Do not let anyone else use your medication. Ask your pharmacist any questions you have about refilling your prescription. It is important for you to keep a written list of all of the prescription and nonprescription (over-the-counter) medicines you are taking, as well as any products such as vitamins, minerals, or other dietary supplements. You should bring this list with you each time you visit a doctor or if you are admitted to a hospital. It is also important information to carry with you in case of emergencies. Brand names Altinac ® ¶ Altreno ® Atralin ® Avita ® Refissa ® Renova ® Retin-A ® Tretin X ® ¶





[ Tretinoin Topical pronounced as (tret' i noyn) To use the sharing features on this page, please enable JavaScript. Why is this medication prescribed? How should this medicine be used? Other uses for this medicine What special precautions should I follow? What should I do if I forget a dose? What side effects can this medication cause? What should I know about storage and disposal of this medication? In case of emergency/overdose What other information should I know? Brand names Other names Why is this medication prescribed? Tretinoin (Altreno, Atralin, Avita, Retin-A) is used to treat acne. Tretinoin is also used to reduce fine wrinkles (Refissa and Renova) and to improve spotty discoloration (Renova) and rough feeling skin (Renova) when used along with other skin care and sunlight avoidance programs. Tretinoin is in a class of medications called retinoids. It works by promoting peeling of affected skin areas and unclogging pores. How should this medicine be used? Tretinoin comes as a lotion (Altreno), cream (Avita, Refissa, Renova, Retin-A), and gel (Atralin, Avita, Retin-A). Tretinoin usually is used daily at bedtime. Follow the directions on your prescription label carefully, and ask your doctor or pharmacist to explain any part you do not understand. Use tretinoin exactly as directed. Do not use more or less of it or use it more often than prescribed by your doctor. Tretinoin controls acne but does not cure it. Your acne probably will get worse (red, scaling skin and an increase in acne sores) during the first 7 to10 days that you use this medication. Nevertheless, continue to use it; the acne sores should disappear. Usually 2 to 3 weeks (and sometimes more than 6 weeks) of regular use of tretinoin is required before improvement is seen. Tretinoin may reduce fine wrinkles, spotty discoloration, and rough feeling skin but does not cure them. It may take 3 to 4 months or up to 6 months before you notice improvement. If you stop using tretinoin, the improvement may gradually disappear. Use only nonmedicated cosmetics on cleansed skin. Do not use topical preparations with a lot of alcohol, menthol, spices, or lime (e.g., shaving lotions, astringents, and perfumes); they can sting your skin, especially when you first use tretinoin. Do not use any other topical medications, especially benzoyl peroxide, hair removers, salicylic acid (wart remover), and dandruff shampoos containing sulfur or resorcinol unless your doctor directs you to do so. If you have used any of these topical medications recently, ask your doctor if you should wait before using tretinoin. Your doctor may tell you to use moisturizer to help with dryness. If you are to apply any form of tretinoin, follow these steps: Wash your hands and affected skin area thoroughly with mild, bland soap (not medicated or abrasive soap or soap that dries the skin) and water. To be sure that your skin is thoroughly dry, wait 20 to 30 minutes before applying tretinoin. Use clean fingertips to apply the medication. Use enough medication to cover the affected area with a thin layer. Apply the medication to the affected skin area only. Do not let tretinoin get into your eyes, ears, mouth, corners along your nose, or vaginal area. Do not apply on areas of sunburn. Ask your pharmacist or doctor for a copy of the manufacturer's information for the patient. Other uses for this medicine This medication may be prescribed for other uses; ask your doctor or pharmacist for more information. What special precautions should I follow? Before using tretinoin, tell your doctor and pharmacist if you are allergic to tretinoin, fish (if taking Altreno), any other medications, or any of the ingredients in tretinoin lotion, cream, or gel. Ask your pharmacist for a list of the ingredients.. tell your doctor and pharmacist what prescription and nonprescription medications, vitamins, nutritional supplements, and herbal products you are taking or plan to take. Be sure to mention any of the following: certain antibiotics such as tetracyclines; antihistamines; diuretics ('water pills'); fluoroquinolones such as ciprofloxacin (Cipro), delafloxacin (Baxdela), gemifloxacin (Factive), levofloxacin (Levaquin), moxifloxacin (Avelox), and ofloxacin; medications for mental illness and nausea; or sulfonamides such as co-trimoxazole (Bactrim, Septra), sulfadiazine, sulfamethizole (Urobiotic), and sulfisoxazole (Gantrisin). Your doctor may need to change the doses of your medications or monitor you carefully for side effects. tell your doctor if you have or have ever had eczema (a skin disease), actinic keratoses (scaly spots or patches on the top layer of the skin), skin cancer, or other skin conditions. tell your doctor if you are pregnant, plan to become pregnant, or are breastfeeding. If you become pregnant while using tretinoin, call your doctor. plan to avoid unnecessary or prolonged exposure to sunlight or ultraviolet light (tanning beds and sunlamps) and to wear protective clothing, sunglasses, and sunscreen. Tretinoin may make your skin sensitive to sunlight or ultraviolet light. you should know that weather extremes, such as wind and cold, may be particularly irritating. What should I do if I forget a dose? Apply the missed dose as soon as you remember it. However, if it is almost time for the next dose, skip the missed dose and continue your regular dosing schedule. Do not apply extra cream, lotion, or gel to make up for a missed dose. What side effects can this medication cause? Tretinoin may cause side effects. Tell your doctor if any of these symptoms are severe or do not go away: warmth or slight stinging of the skin lightening or darkening of the skin red, scaling skin increase in acne sores swelling, blistering, or crusting of the skin dryness, pain, burning, stinging, peeling, redness, or flaky skin at the treatment area Some side effects can be serious. If you experience any of these symptoms call your doctor immediately: itching hives pain or discomfort at the treatment area Tretinoin may cause other side effects. Call your doctor if you have any unusual problems while using this medication. If you experience a serious side effect, you or your doctor may send a report to the Food and Drug Administration's (FDA) MedWatch Adverse Event Reporting program online ( http://www.fda.gov/Safety/MedWatch ) or by phone (1-800-332-1088). What should I know about storage and disposal of this medication? Keep this medication in the container it came in, tightly closed, and out of reach of children. Store it at room temperature and away from excess heat and moisture (not in the bathroom). Do not allow the medication to freeze. Unneeded medications should be disposed of in special ways to ensure that pets, children, and other people cannot consume them. However, you should not flush this medication down the toilet. Instead, the best way to dispose of your medication is through a medicine take-back program. Talk to your pharmacist or contact your local garbage/recycling department to learn about take-back programs in your community. See the FDA's Safe Disposal of Medicines website ( http://goo.gl/c4Rm4p ) for more information if you do not have access to a take-back program. It is important to keep all medication out of sight and reach of children as many containers (such as weekly pill minders and those for eye drops, creams, patches, and inhalers) are not child-resistant and young children can open them easily. To protect young children from poisoning, always lock safety caps and immediately place the medication in a safe location – one that is up and away and out of their sight and reach. http://www.upandaway.org In case of emergency/overdose If someone swallows tretinoin, call your local poison control center at 1-800-222-1222. If the victim has collapsed or is not breathing, call local emergency services at 911. What other information should I know? Keep all appointments with your doctor. Do not let anyone else use your medication. Ask your pharmacist any questions you have about refilling your prescription. It is important for you to keep a written list of all of the prescription and nonprescription (over-the-counter) medicines you are taking, as well as any products such as vitamins, minerals, or other dietary supplements. You should bring this list with you each time you visit a doctor or if you are admitted to a hospital. It is also important information to carry with you in case of emergencies. Brand names Altinac ® ¶ Altreno ® Atralin ® Avita ® Refissa ® Renova ® Retin-A ® Tretin X ® ¶



























[ Glimepiride pronounced as (glye' me pye ride)  Glimepiride is used along with diet and exercise, and sometimes with other medications, to treat type 2 diabetes (condition in which the body does not use insulin normally and, therefore, cannot control the amount of sugar in the blood). Glimepiride lowers blood sugar by causing the pancreas to produce insulin (a natural substance that is needed to break down sugar in the body) and helping the body use insulin efficiently. This medication will only help lower blood sugar in people whose bodies produce insulin naturally. Glimepiride is not used to treat type 1 diabetes (condition in which the body does not produce insulin and, therefore, cannot control the amount of sugar in the blood) or diabetic ketoacidosis (a serious condition that may occur if high blood sugar is not treated). Over time, people who have diabetes and high blood sugar can develop serious or life-threatening complications, including heart disease, stroke, kidney problems, nerve damage, and eye problems. Taking medication(s), making lifestyle changes (e.g., diet, exercise, quitting smoking), and regularly checking your blood sugar may help to manage your diabetes and improve your health. This therapy may also decrease your chances of having a heart attack, stroke, or other diabetes-related complications such as kidney failure, nerve damage (numb, cold legs or feet; decreased sexual ability in men and women), eye problems, including changes or loss of vision, or gum disease. Your doctor and other healthcare providers will talk to you about the best way to manage your diabetes. How should this medicine be used? Glimepiride comes as a tablet to take by mouth. It is usually taken once a day with breakfast or the first main meal of the day. To help you remember to take glimepiride, take it at around the same time every day. Follow the directions on your prescription label carefully, and ask your doctor or pharmacist to explain any part you do not understand. Take glimepiride exactly as directed. Do not take more or less of it or take it more often than prescribed by your doctor. Your doctor will probably start you on a low dose of glimepiride and gradually increase your dose if needed. After you have taken glimepiride for some time, glimepiride may not control your blood sugar as well as it did at the beginning of your treatment. Your doctor may adjust the dose of your medication as needed so that the medication will work best for you. Be sure to tell your doctor how you are feeling and if your blood sugar test results have been higher or lower than normal at any time during your treatment. Glimepiride helps control blood sugar but does not cure diabetes. Continue to take glimepiride even if you feel well. Do not stop taking glimepiride without talking to your doctor. Other uses for this medicine This medication is sometimes prescribed for other uses; ask your doctor or pharmacist for more information. What special precautions should I follow? Before taking glimepiride, tell your doctor and pharmacist if you are allergic to glimepiride, any other medications, or any of the ingredients in glimepiride. Ask your pharmacist for a list of the ingredients. tell your doctor and pharmacist what prescription and nonprescription medications, vitamins, nutritional supplements, and herbal products you are taking or plan to take. Be sure to mention anticoagulants ('blood thinners') such as warfarin (Coumadin); aspirin and other nonsteroidal anti-inflammatory medications (NSAIDs) such as ibuprofen (Advil, Motrin) and naproxen (Aleve, Naprosyn); beta blockers such as atenolol (Tenormin), labetalol (Normodyne), metoprolol (Lopressor, Toprol XL), nadolol (Corgard), and propranolol (Inderal); chloramphenicol; clarithromycin (Biaxin); disopyramide (Norpace); diuretics ('water pills'); fluconazole (Diflucan); fluoxetine (Prozac, Sarafem); hormone replacement therapy and hormonal contraceptives (birth control pills, patches, rings, implants, and injections); insulin or other medications to treat high blood sugar or diabetes; isoniazid (INH); MAO inhibitors such as isocarboxazid (Marplan), phenelzine (Nardil), selegiline (Eldepryl, Emsam, Zelapar), and tranylcypromine (Parnate); medications for asthma and colds; medications for mental illness and nausea; miconazole (Monistat); niacin; oral steroids such as dexamethasone (Decadron, Dexone), methylprednisolone (Medrol), and prednisone (Deltasone); phenytoin (Dilantin); probenecid (Benemid); quinolone and fluoroquinolone antibiotics such as cinoxacin (Cinobac), ciprofloxacin (Cipro), enoxacin (Penetrex), gatifloxacin (Tequin), levofloxacin (Levaquin), lomefloxacin (Maxaquin), moxifloxacin (Avelox), nalidixic acid (NegGram), norfloxacin (Noroxin), ofloxacin (Floxin), sparfloxacin (Zagam), trovafloxacin and alatrofloxacin combination (Trovan); rifampin (Rifadin); salicylate pain relievers such as choline magnesium trisalicylate, choline salicylate (Arthropan), diflunisal (Dolobid), magnesium salicylate (Doan's, others), and salsalate (Argesic, Disalcid, Salgesic); sulfa antibiotics such as co-trimoxazole (Bactrim, Septra); sulfasalazine (Azulfidine); and thyroid medications. Also be sure to tell your doctor or pharmacist if you stop taking any medications while taking glimepiride. Your doctor may need to change the doses of your medications or monitor you carefully for side effects. tell your doctor if you have or have ever had G6PD deficiency (an inherited condition causing premature destruction of red blood cells or hemolytic anemia); if you have hormone disorders involving the adrenal, pituitary, or thyroid gland; or if you have heart, kidney, or liver disease. tell your doctor if you are pregnant, plan to become pregnant, or are breastfeeding. If you become pregnant while taking glimepiride, call your doctor. talk to your doctor about the risks and benefits of taking glimepiride if you are 65 years of age or older. Older adults should not usually take glimepiride because it is not as safe or effective as other medications that can be used to treat the same condition. if you are having surgery, including dental surgery, tell the doctor or dentist that you are taking glimepiride. ask your doctor about the safe use of alcoholic beverages while you are taking glimepiride. Alcohol can make the side effects from glimepiride worse. Consuming alcohol while taking glimepiride also may cause symptoms such as flushing (reddening of the face), headache, nausea, vomiting, chest pain, weakness, blurred vision, mental confusion, sweating, choking, breathing difficulty, and anxiety. plan to avoid unnecessary or prolonged exposure to sunlight and to wear protective clothing, sunglasses, and sunscreen. Glimepiride may make your skin sensitive to sunlight. ask your doctor what to do if you get sick, develop an infection or fever, experience unusual stress, or are injured. These conditions can affect your blood sugar and the amount of glimepiride you may need. What special dietary instructions should I follow? Be sure to follow all exercise and dietary recommendations made by your doctor or dietitian. It is important to eat a healthy diet, exercise regularly, and lose weight if necessary. What should I do if I forget a dose? Before you start to take glimepiride, ask you doctor what you should do if you forget to take a dose. Write these directions down so that you can refer to them later. As a general rule, take the missed dose as soon as you remember it. If it is almost time for the next dose, skip the missed dose and continue your regular dosing schedule. Do not take a double dose to make up for a missed one. What side effects can this medication cause? This medication may cause changes in your blood sugar. You should know the symptoms of low and high blood sugar and what to do if you have these symptoms. Glimepiride may cause side effects. Tell your doctor if any of these symptoms are severe or do not go away: dizziness nausea Some side effects can be serious. If you experience any of these symptoms, call your doctor immediately: yellowing of the skin or eyes light-colored stools dark urine pain in the upper right part of the stomach unusual bruising or bleeding diarrhea fever sore throat Glimepiride may cause other side effects. Call your doctor if you have any unusual problems while taking this medication. If you experience a serious side effect, you or your doctor may send a report to the Food and Drug Administration's (FDA) MedWatch Adverse Event Reporting program online ( http://www.fda.gov/Safety/MedWatch ) or by phone (1-800-332-1088). In one study, people who took a medication similar to glimepiride to treat their diabetes were more likely to die of heart problems than people who were treated with insulin and diet changes. Talk to your doctor about the risks of taking glimepiride. What should I know about storage and disposal of this medication? Keep this medication in the container it came in, tightly closed, and out of reach of children. Store it at room temperature and away from excess heat and moisture (not in the bathroom). It is important to keep all medication out of sight and reach of children as many containers (such as weekly pill minders and those for eye drops, creams, patches, and inhalers) are not child-resistant and young children can open them easily. To protect young children from poisoning, always lock safety caps and immediately place the medication in a safe location – one that is up and away and out of their sight and reach. http://www.upandaway.org Unneeded medications should be disposed of in special ways to ensure that pets, children, and other people cannot consume them. However, you should not flush this medication down the toilet. Instead, the best way to dispose of your medication is through a medicine take-back program. Talk to your pharmacist or contact your local garbage/recycling department to learn about take-back programs in your community. See the FDA's Safe Disposal of Medicines website ( http://goo.gl/c4Rm4p ) for more information if you do not have access to a take-back program. In case of emergency/overdose In case of overdose, call the poison control helpline at 1-800-222-1222. Information is also available online at https://www.poisonhelp.org/help . If the victim has collapsed, had a seizure, has trouble breathing, or can't be awakened, immediately call emergency services at 911. Symptoms of overdose may include hypoglycemia symptoms as well as the following: seizures loss of consciousness What other information should I know? Keep all appointments with your doctor and the laboratory. Your fasting blood sugar levels and glycosylated hemoglobin (HbA1c) should be checked regularly to determine your response to glimepiride. Your doctor may order other lab tests to check your response to glimepiride. Your doctor will also tell you how to check your response to this medication by measuring your blood sugar levels at home. Follow these instructions carefully. You should always wear a diabetic identification bracelet to be sure you get proper treatment in an emergency. Do not let anyone else take your medication. Ask your pharmacist any questions you have about refilling your prescription. It is important for you to keep a written list of all of the prescription and nonprescription (over-the-counter) medicines you are taking, as well as any products such as vitamins, minerals, or other dietary supplements. You should bring this list with you each time you visit a doctor or if you are admitted to a hospital. It is also important information to carry with you in case of emergencies. Brand names Amaryl ®

[ Codeine pronounced as (koe' deen) To use the sharing features on this page, please enable JavaScript. Why is this medication prescribed? How should this medicine be used? Other uses for this medicine What special precautions should I follow? What special dietary instructions should I follow? What should I do if I forget a dose? What side effects can this medication cause? What should I know about storage and disposal of this medication? In case of emergency/overdose What other information should I know? Brand names IMPORTANT WARNING: Codeine may be habit forming, especially with prolonged use. Take codeine exactly as directed. Do not take more of it, take it more often, take it for a longer period of time, or take it in a different way than directed by your doctor. While taking codeine, discuss with your healthcare provider your pain treatment goals, length of treatment, and other ways to manage your pain. Tell your doctor if you or anyone in your family drinks or has ever drunk large amounts of alcohol, uses or has ever used street drugs, or has overused prescription medications, or has had an overdose, or if you have or have ever had depression or another mental illness. There is a greater risk that you will overuse codeine if you have or have ever had any of these conditions. Talk to your healthcare provider immediately and ask for guidance if you think that you have an opioid addiction or call the U.S. Substance Abuse and Mental Health Services Administration (SAMHSA) National Helpline at 1-800-662-HELP. Codeine may cause serious or life-threatening breathing problems, especially during the first 24 to 72 hours of your treatment and any time your dose is increased. Your doctor will monitor you carefully during your treatment. Tell your doctor if you have or have ever had slowed breathing or asthma. Your doctor will probably tell you not to take codeine. Also tell your doctor if you have or have ever had lung disease such as chronic obstructive pulmonary disease (COPD; a group of diseases that affect the lungs and airways), a head injury, brain tumor, or any condition that increases the amount of pressure in your brain. The risk that you will develop breathing problems may be higher if you are an older adult or are weak or malnourished due to disease or if you rapidly breakdown (metabolize) certain medications or if you have been told that you are a "rapid metabolizer" or a "fast metabolizer". If you experience any of the following symptoms, call your doctor immediately or get emergency medical treatment: slowed breathing, long pauses between breaths, or shortness of breath. When codeine was used in children, serious and life-threatening breathing problems such as slow or difficulty breathing and deaths were reported. Codeine is generally not used to treat pain or a cough in children younger than 18 years of age. If your child is currently prescribed a cough and cold medicine containing codeine, talk to your child's doctor about other treatments. Do not allow anyone else to take your medication. Codeine may harm or cause death to other people who take your medication, especially children. Store codeine in a safe place so that no one else can take it accidentally or on purpose. Be especially careful to keep codeine out of the reach of children. Keep track of how many tablets or how much solution are left so you will know if any medication is missing. Taking certain medications during your treatment with codeine may increase the risk that you will experience breathing problems or other serious, life-threatening breathing problems, sedation, or coma. Tell your doctor and pharmacist what other prescription and nonprescription medications, vitamins, nutritional supplements, and herbal products you are taking or plan to take. Your doctor may need to change the dosages of your medications and will monitor you carefully. If you take codeine with other medications and you develop any of the following symptoms, call your doctor immediately or seek emergency medical care: unusual dizziness, lightheadedness, extreme sleepiness, slowed or difficult breathing, or unresponsiveness. Be sure that your caregiver or family members know which symptoms may be serious so they can call the doctor or emergency medical care if you are unable to seek treatment on your own. Drinking alcohol or using street drugs during your treatment with codeine also increases the risk that you will experience these serious, life-threatening side effects. Do not drink alcohol, take prescription or nonprescription medications that contain alcohol, or use street drugs during your treatment. Tell your doctor if you are pregnant or plan to become pregnant. If you take codeine regularly during your pregnancy, your baby may experience life-threatening withdrawal symptoms after birth. Tell your baby's doctor right away if your baby experiences any of the following symptoms: irritability, hyperactivity, abnormal sleep, high-pitched cry, uncontrollable shaking of a part of the body, vomiting, diarrhea, or failure to gain weight. Your doctor or pharmacist will give you the manufacturer's patient information sheet (Medication Guide) when you begin treatment with codeine and each time you refill your prescription. Read the information carefully and ask your doctor or pharmacist if you have any questions. You can also visit the Food and Drug Administration (FDA) website ( http://www.fda.gov/Drugs/DrugSafety/ucm085729.htm ) or the manufacturer's website to obtain the Medication Guide. Why is this medication prescribed? Codeine is used to relieve mild to moderate pain in people who are expected to need an opioid pain medication and who cannot be treated with other pain medications. It is also used in combination with other medications to temporarily relieve cough caused by the common cold, the flu, or other conditions in adults. Codeine will help relieve symptoms but will not treat the cause of symptoms or speed recovery. Codeine belongs to a class of medications called opiate (narcotic) analgesics and to a class of medications called antitussives. When codeine is used to treat pain, it works by changing the way the brain and nervous system respond to pain. When codeine is used to reduce coughing, it works by decreasing the activity in the part of the brain that causes coughing. Codeine is also available in combination with acetaminophen and aspirin, and as an ingredient in many cough and cold medications. This monograph only includes information about the use of codeine. If you are taking a codeine combination product, be sure to read information about all the ingredients in the product you are taking and ask your doctor or pharmacist for more information. How should this medicine be used? Codeine (alone or in combination with other medications) comes as an immediate-release tablet an extended-release tablet, a solution (liquid), and syrup to take by mouth. If codeine is used to treat pain, it is usually taken every 4 hours as needed for pain. If codeine solution or syrup (in combination with other medications) is used to temporarily relieve cough, it is usually taken every 4 to 6 hours as needed. If codeine extended-release tablets are used to temporarily relieve cough, it is usually taken every 12 hours as needed . Follow the directions on your prescription label carefully, and ask your doctor or pharmacist to explain any part you do not understand. Take codeine exactly as directed. If you are taking codeine to relieve pain, your doctor may adjust your dose during your treatment, depending on how well your pain is controlled and on the side effects that you experience. Talk to your doctor about how you are feeling during your treatment with codeine. Tell your doctor if you feel that your pain is not controlled or if your pain increases, becomes worse, or if you have new pain or an increased sensitivity to pain during your treatment with codeine. Do not take more of it or take it more often than prescribed by your doctor. If you have taken codeine for several weeks or longer, do not stop taking the medication without talking to your doctor. Your doctor may decrease your dose gradually. If you suddenly stop taking codeine, you may experience withdrawal symptoms such as restlessness, widened pupils (black circles in the center of the eyes), teary eyes, irritability, anxiety, runny nose, difficulty falling asleep or staying asleep, yawning, sweating, fast breathing, fast heartbeat, chills, hair on your arms standing on end, nausea, loss of appetite, vomiting, diarrhea, stomach cramps, muscle aches, or backache. If you are taking codeine oral solution or syrup, do not use a household spoon to measure your dose. Use the measuring cup or spoon that came with the medication or use a spoon that is made especially for measuring medication. Ask your pharmacist if you have any question about how much medication you should take or how to use the dosing cup or syringe. Other uses for this medicine This medication is sometimes prescribed for other uses; ask your doctor or pharmacist for more information. What special precautions should I follow? Before taking codeine, tell your doctor and pharmacist if you are allergic to codeine, any other medications, or any of the ingredients in the codeine product you plan to take. Ask your doctor or pharmacist for a list of the ingredients. tell your doctor or pharmacist if you are taking the following medications or if you have stopped taking them within the past 2 weeks: isocarboxazid (Marplan), linezolid (Zyvox), methylene blue, phenelzine (Nardil), selegiline (Emsam, Zelapar), or tranylcypromine (Parnate). The following nonprescription or herbal products may interact with codeine: St. John's wort and tryptophan. Be sure to let your doctor and pharmacist know that you are taking these medications before you start taking codeine. Do not start these medications while taking codeine without discussing it with your healthcare provider. tell your doctor if you have any of the conditions mentioned in the IMPORTANT WARNING section, a blockage or narrowing of your stomach or intestines, or paralytic ileus (condition in which digested food does not move through the intestines). Your doctor may tell you not to take codeine. Tell your doctor if you have or have ever had seizures; prostatic hypertrophy (enlargement of a male reproductive gland); urinary problems; low blood pressure; diabetes; adrenal insufficiency (condition in which the adrenal glands do not produce enough of certain hormones needed for important body functions); or thyroid, pancreatic, gallbladder, liver, or kidney disease. you should know that this medication may decrease fertility in men and women. Talk to your doctor about the risks of taking codeine. tell your doctor if you are breastfeeding. You should not breastfeed while taking codeine. Codeine can cause shallow breathing, difficulty or noisy breathing, confusion, more than usual sleepiness, trouble breastfeeding, or limpness in breastfed infants. if you are having surgery, including dental surgery, tell the doctor or dentist that you are taking codeine. you should know that this medication may make you drowsy. Do not drive a car or operate machinery until you know how this medication affects you. you should know that codeine may cause dizziness, lightheadedness, and fainting when you get up too quickly from a lying position. This is more common when you first start taking codeine. To avoid this problem, get out of bed slowly, resting your feet on the floor for a few minutes before standing up. you should know that codeine may cause constipation. Talk to your doctor about changing your diet and using other medications to treat or prevent constipation. What special dietary instructions should I follow? Talk to your doctor about eating grapefruit and drinking grapefruit juice while using this medication. What should I do if I forget a dose? Codeine is usually taken as needed. If you miss a dose, skip the missed dose and continue your regular dosing schedule. Do not take a double dose to make up for a missed one. What side effects can this medication cause? Codeine may cause side effects. Tell your doctor if any of these symptoms are severe or do not go away: headache stomach pain sleepiness nausea vomiting dizziness difficulty urinating Some side effects can be serious. If you experience any of the following symptoms or those listed in the IMPORTANT WARNINGS section, stop taking codeine and call your doctor immediately or get emergency medical attention: agitation, hallucinations (seeing things or hearing voices that do not exist), fever, sweating, confusion, fast heartbeat, shivering, severe muscle stiffness or twitching, loss of coordination, nausea, vomiting, or diarrhea nausea, vomiting, loss of appetite, weakness, or dizziness inability to get or keep an erection irregular menstruation decreased sexual desire noisy or shallow breathing difficulty breathing or swallowing changes in heartbeat rash; hives; itching; nausea; vomiting; hoarseness; difficulty breathing or swallowing; or swelling of the eyes, face, lips, mouth, tongue or throat seizures Codeine may cause other side effects. Call your doctor if you have any unusual problems while you are taking this medication. If you experience a serious side effect, you or your doctor may send a report to the Food and Drug Administration's (FDA) MedWatch Adverse Event Reporting program online ( http://www.fda.gov/Safety/MedWatch ) or by phone (1-800-332-1088). What should I know about storage and disposal of this medication? Keep this medication in the container it came in, tightly closed, and out of reach of children, and in a location that is not easily accessible by others, including visitors to the home. Store it at room temperature and away from excess heat and moisture (not in the bathroom). You must immediately dispose of any medication that is outdated or no longer needed through a medicine take-back program. If you do not have a take-back program nearby or one that you can access promptly, flush any medication that is outdated or no longer needed down the toilet so that others will not take it. Talk to your pharmacist about the proper disposal of your medication. It is important to keep all medication out of sight and reach of children as many containers (such as weekly pill minders and those for eye drops, creams, patches, and inhalers) are not child-resistant and young children can open them easily. To protect young children from poisoning, always lock safety caps and immediately place the medication in a safe location – one that is up and away and out of their sight and reach. http://www.upandaway.org Unneeded medications should be disposed of in special ways to ensure that pets, children, and other people cannot consume them. However, you should not flush this medication down the toilet. Instead, the best way to dispose of your medication is through a medicine take-back program. Talk to your pharmacist or contact your local garbage/recycling department to learn about take-back programs in your community. See the FDA's Safe Disposal of Medicines website ( http://goo.gl/c4Rm4p ) for more information if you do not have access to a take-back program. In case of emergency/overdose In case of overdose, call the poison control helpline at 1-800-222-1222. Information is also available online at https://www.poisonhelp.org/help . If the victim has collapsed, had a seizure, has trouble breathing, or can't be awakened, immediately call emergency services at 911. While taking codeine, you should talk to your doctor about having a rescue medication called naloxone readily available (e.g., home, office). Naloxone is used to reverse the life-threatening effects of an overdose. It works by blocking the effects of opiates to relieve dangerous symptoms caused by high levels of opiates in the blood. Your doctor may also prescribe you naloxone if you are living in a household where there are small children or someone who has abused street or prescription drugs. You should make sure that you and your family members, caregivers, or the people who spend time with you know how to recognize an overdose, how to use naloxone, and what to do until emergency medical help arrives. Your doctor or pharmacist will show you and your family members how to use the medication. Ask your pharmacist for the instructions or visit the manufacturer's website to get the instructions. If symptoms of an overdose occur, a friend or family member should give the first dose of naloxone, call 911 immediately, and stay with you and watch you closely until emergency medical help arrives. Your symptoms may return within a few minutes after you receive naloxone. If your symptoms return, the person should give you another dose of naloxone. Additional doses may be given every 2 to 3 minutes, if symptoms return before medical help arrives. Symptoms of overdose may include the following: difficulty breathing slow or shallow breathing excessive drowsiness or sleepiness unable to respond or wake up limp or weak muscles cold and clammy skin increase or decrease in pupil (dark circle in the eye) size slow heartbeat unusual snoring What other information should I know? Keep all appointments with your doctor and laboratory. Your doctor will order certain lab tests to check your body's response to codeine. Before having any laboratory test (especially those that involve methylene blue), tell your doctor and the laboratory personnel that you are taking codeine. Do not let anyone else use your medication, even if he or she has the same symptoms that you have. Selling or giving away this medication may cause death or harm to others and is illegal. Your prescription might not be refillable. Ask your pharmacist any questions you have about refilling your prescription. It is important for you to keep a written list of all of the prescription and nonprescription (over-the-counter) medicines you are taking, as well as any products such as vitamins, minerals, or other dietary supplements. You should bring this list with you each time you visit a doctor or if you are admitted to a hospital. It is also important information to carry with you in case of emergencies. Brand names Codeprex ® (as a combination product containing Chlorpheniramine, Codeine) ¶ Penntuss ® (as a combination product containing Chlorpheniramine, Codeine) ¶ Tuxarin EXR ® (as a combination product containing Chlorpheniramine, Codeine) Tuzistra XR ® (as a combination product containing Chlorpheniramine, Codeine) ¶





[ Pseudoephedrine pronounced as (soo doe e fed' rin)  Pseudoephedrine is used to relieve nasal congestion caused by colds, allergies, and hay fever. It is also used to temporarily relieve sinus congestion and pressure. Pseudoephedrine will relieve symptoms but will not treat the cause of the symptoms or speed recovery. Pseudoephedrine is in a class of medications called nasal decongestants. It works by causing narrowing of the blood vessels in the nasal passages. How should this medicine be used? Pseudoephedrine comes as a regular tablet, a 12-hour extended-release (long-acting) tablet, a 24-hour extended-release tablet, and a solution (liquid) to be taken by mouth. The regular tablets and liquid are usually taken every 4 to 6 hours. The 12-hour extended-release tablets usually are taken every 12 hours, and you should not take more than two doses in a 24-hour period. The 24-hour extended-release tablets usually are taken once a day, and you should not take more than one dose in a 24-hour period. To help prevent trouble sleeping, take the last dose of the day several hours before bedtime. Follow the directions on the package label or on your prescription label carefully, and ask your doctor or pharmacist to explain any part you do not understand. Take pseudoephedrine exactly as directed. Do not take more or less of it or take it more often than prescribed by your doctor or directed on the label. Pseudoephedrine comes alone and in combination with other medications. Ask your doctor or pharmacist for advice on which product is best for your symptoms. Check nonprescription cough and cold product labels carefully before using 2 or more products at the same time. These products may contain the same active ingredient(s) and taking them together could cause you to receive an overdose. This is especially important if you will be giving cough and cold medications to a child. Nonprescription cough and cold combination products, including products that contain pseudoephedrine, can cause serious side effects or death in young children. Do not give nonprescription pseudoephedrine products to children younger than 4 years of age. If you give these products to children 4-11 years of age, use caution and follow the package directions carefully. Do not give pseudoephedrine extended-release tablets to children younger than 12 years of age. If you are giving pseudoephedrine or a combination product that contains pseudoephedrine to a child, read the package label carefully to be sure that it is the right product for a child of that age. Do not give pseudoephedrine products that are made for adults to children. Before you give a pseudoephedrine product to a child, check the package label to find out how much medication the child should receive. Give the dose that matches the child's age on the chart. Ask the child's doctor if you don't know how much medication to give the child. If you are taking the liquid, do not use a household spoon to measure your dose. Use the measuring spoon or cup that came with the medication or use a spoon made especially for measuring medication. If your symptoms do not get better within 7 days or if you have a fever, stop taking pseudoephedrine and call your doctor. Swallow the extended-release tablets whole; do not break, crush, or chew them. Other uses for this medicine This medication is also sometimes used to prevent ear pain and blockage caused by pressure changes during air travel or underwater diving. Talk to your doctor or pharmacist for more information. This medication is sometimes prescribed for other uses; ask your doctor or pharmacist for more information. What special precautions should I follow? Before taking pseudoephedrine, tell your doctor and pharmacist if you are allergic to pseudoephedrine, any other medications, or any of the inactive ingredients in the pseudoephedrine product you plan to take. Check the package label for a list of the ingredients. do not take pseudoephedrine if you are taking a monoamine oxidase (MAO) inhibitor such as isocarboxazid (Marplan), phenelzine (Nardil), selegiline (Eldepryl, Emsam, Zelapar), and tranylcypromine (Parnate), or if you have stopped taking one of these medications within the past 2 weeks. tell your doctor and pharmacist what prescription and nonprescription medications, vitamins, nutritional supplements, and herbal products you are taking or plan to take. Be sure to mention medications for diet or appetite control, asthma, colds, or high blood pressure. tell your doctor if you have or have ever had high blood pressure, glaucoma (a condition in which increased pressure in the eye can lead to gradual loss of vision), diabetes, difficulty urinating (due to an enlarged prostate gland), or thyroid or heart disease. If you plan to take the 24-hour extended-release tablets, tell your doctor if you have had a narrowing or blockage of your digestive system. tell your doctor if you are pregnant, plan to become pregnant, or are breast-feeding. If you become pregnant while taking pseudoephedrine, call your doctor. if you are having surgery, including dental surgery, tell the doctor or dentist that you are taking pseudoephedrine. What special dietary instructions should I follow? Foods and drinks that contain large amounts of caffeine can make the side effects of pseudoephedrine worse. What should I do if I forget a dose? This medication is usually taken as needed. If your doctor has told you to take pseudoephedrine regularly, take the missed dose as soon as you remember it. However, if it is almost time for the next dose, skip the missed dose and continue your regular dosing schedule. Do not take a double dose to make up for a missed one. What side effects can this medication cause? Pseudoephedrine may cause side effects. Tell your doctor if any of these symptoms are severe or do not go away: restlessness nausea vomiting weakness headache Some side effects can be serious. If you experience any of the following symptoms, call your doctor immediately: nervousness dizziness difficulty sleeping stomach pain difficulty breathing fast, pounding, or irregular heartbeat Pseudoephedrine may cause other side effects. Call your doctor if you have any unusual problems while you are taking this medication. If you experience a serious side effect, you or your doctor may send a report to the Food and Drug Administration's (FDA) MedWatch Adverse Event Reporting program online ( http://www.fda.gov/Safety/MedWatch ) or by phone (1-800-332-1088). What should I know about storage and disposal of this medication? Keep this medication in the container it came in, tightly closed, and out of reach of children. Store it at room temperature and away from excess heat and moisture (not in the bathroom). Unneeded medications should be disposed of in special ways to ensure that pets, children, and other people cannot consume them. However, you should not flush this medication down the toilet. Instead, the best way to dispose of your medication is through a medicine take-back program. Talk to your pharmacist or contact your local garbage/recycling department to learn about take-back programs in your community. See the FDA's Safe Disposal of Medicines website ( http://goo.gl/c4Rm4p ) for more information if you do not have access to a take-back program. It is important to keep all medication out of sight and reach of children as many containers (such as weekly pill minders and those for eye drops, creams, patches, and inhalers) are not child-resistant and young children can open them easily. To protect young children from poisoning, always lock safety caps and immediately place the medication in a safe location – one that is up and away and out of their sight and reach. http://www.upandaway.org In case of emergency/overdose In case of overdose, call the poison control helpline at 1-800-222-1222. Information is also available online at https://www.poisonhelp.org/help . If the victim has collapsed, had a seizure, has trouble breathing, or can't be awakened, immediately call emergency services at 911. What other information should I know? If you are taking the 24-hour extended-release tablets, you may notice something that looks like a tablet in your stool. This is just the empty tablet shell, and this does not mean that you did not get your complete dose of medication. Ask your pharmacist any questions you have about pseudoephedrine. It is important for you to keep a written list of all of the prescription and nonprescription (over-the-counter) medicines you are taking, as well as any products such as vitamins, minerals, or other dietary supplements. You should bring this list with you each time you visit a doctor or if you are admitted to a hospital. It is also important information to carry with you in case of emergencies. Brand names Afrinol ® ¶ Cenafed ® ¶ Children's Sudafed Nasal Decongestant ® Congestaclear ® ¶ Efidac ® ¶ Myfedrine ® ¶ Pseudocot ® ¶ Ridafed ® ¶ Silfedrine ® Sudafed 12/24 Hour ® Sudafed Congestion ® Sudodrin ® ¶ SudoGest ® Sudrine ® ¶ Superfed ® ¶ Suphedrin ® Allegra-D® (as a combination product containing Fexofenadine, Pseudoephedrine)

[ Pseudoephedrine pronounced as (soo doe e fed' rin)  Pseudoephedrine is used to relieve nasal congestion caused by colds, allergies, and hay fever. It is also used to temporarily relieve sinus congestion and pressure. Pseudoephedrine will relieve symptoms but will not treat the cause of the symptoms or speed recovery. Pseudoephedrine is in a class of medications called nasal decongestants. It works by causing narrowing of the blood vessels in the nasal passages. How should this medicine be used? Pseudoephedrine comes as a regular tablet, a 12-hour extended-release (long-acting) tablet, a 24-hour extended-release tablet, and a solution (liquid) to be taken by mouth. The regular tablets and liquid are usually taken every 4 to 6 hours. The 12-hour extended-release tablets usually are taken every 12 hours, and you should not take more than two doses in a 24-hour period. The 24-hour extended-release tablets usually are taken once a day, and you should not take more than one dose in a 24-hour period. To help prevent trouble sleeping, take the last dose of the day several hours before bedtime. Follow the directions on the package label or on your prescription label carefully, and ask your doctor or pharmacist to explain any part you do not understand. Take pseudoephedrine exactly as directed. Do not take more or less of it or take it more often than prescribed by your doctor or directed on the label. Pseudoephedrine comes alone and in combination with other medications. Ask your doctor or pharmacist for advice on which product is best for your symptoms. Check nonprescription cough and cold product labels carefully before using 2 or more products at the same time. These products may contain the same active ingredient(s) and taking them together could cause you to receive an overdose. This is especially important if you will be giving cough and cold medications to a child. Nonprescription cough and cold combination products, including products that contain pseudoephedrine, can cause serious side effects or death in young children. Do not give nonprescription pseudoephedrine products to children younger than 4 years of age. If you give these products to children 4-11 years of age, use caution and follow the package directions carefully. Do not give pseudoephedrine extended-release tablets to children younger than 12 years of age. If you are giving pseudoephedrine or a combination product that contains pseudoephedrine to a child, read the package label carefully to be sure that it is the right product for a child of that age. Do not give pseudoephedrine products that are made for adults to children. Before you give a pseudoephedrine product to a child, check the package label to find out how much medication the child should receive. Give the dose that matches the child's age on the chart. Ask the child's doctor if you don't know how much medication to give the child. If you are taking the liquid, do not use a household spoon to measure your dose. Use the measuring spoon or cup that came with the medication or use a spoon made especially for measuring medication. If your symptoms do not get better within 7 days or if you have a fever, stop taking pseudoephedrine and call your doctor. Swallow the extended-release tablets whole; do not break, crush, or chew them. Other uses for this medicine This medication is also sometimes used to prevent ear pain and blockage caused by pressure changes during air travel or underwater diving. Talk to your doctor or pharmacist for more information. This medication is sometimes prescribed for other uses; ask your doctor or pharmacist for more information. What special precautions should I follow? Before taking pseudoephedrine, tell your doctor and pharmacist if you are allergic to pseudoephedrine, any other medications, or any of the inactive ingredients in the pseudoephedrine product you plan to take. Check the package label for a list of the ingredients. do not take pseudoephedrine if you are taking a monoamine oxidase (MAO) inhibitor such as isocarboxazid (Marplan), phenelzine (Nardil), selegiline (Eldepryl, Emsam, Zelapar), and tranylcypromine (Parnate), or if you have stopped taking one of these medications within the past 2 weeks. tell your doctor and pharmacist what prescription and nonprescription medications, vitamins, nutritional supplements, and herbal products you are taking or plan to take. Be sure to mention medications for diet or appetite control, asthma, colds, or high blood pressure. tell your doctor if you have or have ever had high blood pressure, glaucoma (a condition in which increased pressure in the eye can lead to gradual loss of vision), diabetes, difficulty urinating (due to an enlarged prostate gland), or thyroid or heart disease. If you plan to take the 24-hour extended-release tablets, tell your doctor if you have had a narrowing or blockage of your digestive system. tell your doctor if you are pregnant, plan to become pregnant, or are breast-feeding. If you become pregnant while taking pseudoephedrine, call your doctor. if you are having surgery, including dental surgery, tell the doctor or dentist that you are taking pseudoephedrine. What special dietary instructions should I follow? Foods and drinks that contain large amounts of caffeine can make the side effects of pseudoephedrine worse. What should I do if I forget a dose? This medication is usually taken as needed. If your doctor has told you to take pseudoephedrine regularly, take the missed dose as soon as you remember it. However, if it is almost time for the next dose, skip the missed dose and continue your regular dosing schedule. Do not take a double dose to make up for a missed one. What side effects can this medication cause? Pseudoephedrine may cause side effects. Tell your doctor if any of these symptoms are severe or do not go away: restlessness nausea vomiting weakness headache Some side effects can be serious. If you experience any of the following symptoms, call your doctor immediately: nervousness dizziness difficulty sleeping stomach pain difficulty breathing fast, pounding, or irregular heartbeat Pseudoephedrine may cause other side effects. Call your doctor if you have any unusual problems while you are taking this medication. If you experience a serious side effect, you or your doctor may send a report to the Food and Drug Administration's (FDA) MedWatch Adverse Event Reporting program online ( http://www.fda.gov/Safety/MedWatch ) or by phone (1-800-332-1088). What should I know about storage and disposal of this medication? Keep this medication in the container it came in, tightly closed, and out of reach of children. Store it at room temperature and away from excess heat and moisture (not in the bathroom). Unneeded medications should be disposed of in special ways to ensure that pets, children, and other people cannot consume them. However, you should not flush this medication down the toilet. Instead, the best way to dispose of your medication is through a medicine take-back program. Talk to your pharmacist or contact your local garbage/recycling department to learn about take-back programs in your community. See the FDA's Safe Disposal of Medicines website ( http://goo.gl/c4Rm4p ) for more information if you do not have access to a take-back program. It is important to keep all medication out of sight and reach of children as many containers (such as weekly pill minders and those for eye drops, creams, patches, and inhalers) are not child-resistant and young children can open them easily. To protect young children from poisoning, always lock safety caps and immediately place the medication in a safe location – one that is up and away and out of their sight and reach. http://www.upandaway.org In case of emergency/overdose In case of overdose, call the poison control helpline at 1-800-222-1222. Information is also available online at https://www.poisonhelp.org/help . If the victim has collapsed, had a seizure, has trouble breathing, or can't be awakened, immediately call emergency services at 911. What other information should I know? If you are taking the 24-hour extended-release tablets, you may notice something that looks like a tablet in your stool. This is just the empty tablet shell, and this does not mean that you did not get your complete dose of medication. Ask your pharmacist any questions you have about pseudoephedrine. It is important for you to keep a written list of all of the prescription and nonprescription (over-the-counter) medicines you are taking, as well as any products such as vitamins, minerals, or other dietary supplements. You should bring this list with you each time you visit a doctor or if you are admitted to a hospital. It is also important information to carry with you in case of emergencies. Brand names Afrinol ® ¶ Cenafed ® ¶ Children's Sudafed Nasal Decongestant ® Congestaclear ® ¶ Efidac ® ¶ Myfedrine ® ¶ Pseudocot ® ¶ Ridafed ® ¶ Silfedrine ® Sudafed 12/24 Hour ® Sudafed Congestion ® Sudodrin ® ¶ SudoGest ® Sudrine ® ¶ Superfed ® ¶ Suphedrin ® Allegra-D® (as a combination product containing Fexofenadine, Pseudoephedrine)







[ Medroxyprogesterone pronounced as (me drox' ee proe jes' te rone) To use the sharing features on this page, please enable JavaScript. Why is this medication prescribed? How should this medicine be used? Other uses for this medicine What special precautions should I follow? What special dietary instructions should I follow? What should I do if I forget a dose? What side effects can this medication cause? What should I know about storage and disposal of this medication? In case of emergency/overdose What other information should I know? Brand names Other names Why is this medication prescribed? Medroxyprogesterone is used to treat abnormal menstruation (periods) or irregular vaginal bleeding. Medroxyprogesterone is also used to bring on a normal menstrual cycle in women who menstruated normally in the past but have not menstruated for at least 6 months and who are not pregnant or undergoing menopause (change of life). Medroxyprogesterone is also used to prevent overgrowth of the lining of the uterus (womb) and may decrease the risk of cancer of the uterus in patients who are taking estrogen. Medroxyprogesterone is in a class of medications called progestins. It works by stopping the growth of the lining of the uterus and by causing the uterus to produce certain hormones. How should this medicine be used? Medroxyprogesterone comes as a tablet to take by mouth. It is usually taken once a day on certain days of a regular monthly cycle. To help you remember to take medroxyprogesterone, take it at around the same time every day on the days you are scheduled to take it. Follow the directions on your prescription label carefully, and ask your doctor or pharmacist to explain any part you do not understand. Take medroxyprogesterone exactly as directed. Do not take more or less of it or take it more often than prescribed by your doctor. Medroxyprogesterone may control your condition but will not cure it. Continue to take medroxyprogesterone according to your monthly schedule even if you feel well. Do not stop taking medroxyprogesterone without talking to your doctor. Other uses for this medicine This medication may be prescribed for other uses; ask your doctor or pharmacist for more information. What special precautions should I follow? Before taking medroxyprogesterone, tell your doctor and pharmacist if you are allergic to medroxyprogesterone (Provera, Depo-Provera), any other medications, or corn. tell your doctor and pharmacist what prescription and nonprescription medications, vitamins, nutritional supplements, and herbal products you are taking. Be sure to mention aminoglutethimide (Cytadren). Your doctor may need to change the doses of your medications or monitor you carefully for side effects. tell your doctor if you have or have ever had cancer of the breasts or female organs; unexplained vaginal bleeding; a missed abortion (a pregnancy that ended when the unborn child died in the uterus but was not expelled from the body); blood clots in your legs, lungs, brain, or eyes; stroke or mini-stroke; seizures; migraine headaches; depression; asthma; diabetes; or heart, kidney, or liver disease. tell your doctor if you are pregnant, plan to become pregnant, or are breast-feeding. If you become pregnant while taking medroxyprogesterone, call your doctor immediately. Medroxyprogesterone should never be used to test for pregnancy or to prevent miscarriage during the first few months of pregnancy. Medroxyprogesterone has not been shown to prevent miscarriage and may harm the fetus. if you are having surgery, including dental surgery, tell the doctor or dentist that you are taking medroxyprogesterone. What special dietary instructions should I follow? Unless your doctor tells you otherwise, continue your normal diet. What should I do if I forget a dose? Take the missed dose as soon as you remember it. However, if it is almost time for the next dose, skip the missed dose and continue your regular dosing schedule. Do not take a double dose to make up for a missed one. What side effects can this medication cause? Medroxyprogesterone may cause side effects. Tell your doctor if any of these symptoms are severe or do not go away: breasts that are tender or produce a liquid changes in menstrual flow irregular vaginal bleeding or spotting acne growth of hair on face loss of hair on scalp difficulty falling asleep or staying asleep drowsiness upset stomach weight gain or loss Some side effects can be serious. The following symptoms are uncommon, but if you experience any of them, call your doctor immediately: pain, swelling, warmth, redness, or tenderness in one leg only slow or difficult speech dizziness or faintness weakness or numbness of an arm or leg shortness of breath coughing up blood sudden sharp or crushing chest pain fast or pounding heartbeat sudden vision changes or loss of vision double vision blurred vision bulging eyes missed periods depression yellowing of the skin or eyes fever hives skin rash itching difficulty breathing or swallowing swelling of the hands, feet, ankles, or lower legs Some laboratory animals who were given medroxyprogesterone developed breast tumors. It is not known if medroxyprogesterone increases the risk of breast cancer in humans. Medroxyprogesterone may also increase the chance that you will develop a blood clot that moves to your lungs or brain. Talk to your doctor about the risks of taking this medication. Medroxyprogesterone may cause other side effects. Call your doctor if you have any unusual problems while taking this medication. If you experience a serious side effect, you or your doctor may send a report to the Food and Drug Administration's (FDA) MedWatch Adverse Event Reporting program online ( http://www.fda.gov/Safety/MedWatch ) or by phone (1-800-332-1088). What should I know about storage and disposal of this medication? Keep this medication in the container it came in, tightly closed, and out of reach of children. Store it at room temperature and away from excess heat and moisture (not in the bathroom). Unneeded medications should be disposed of in special ways to ensure that pets, children, and other people cannot consume them. However, you should not flush this medication down the toilet. Instead, the best way to dispose of your medication is through a medicine take-back program. Talk to your pharmacist or contact your local garbage/recycling department to learn about take-back programs in your community. See the FDA's Safe Disposal of Medicines website ( http://goo.gl/c4Rm4p ) for more information if you do not have access to a take-back program. It is important to keep all medication out of sight and reach of children as many containers (such as weekly pill minders and those for eye drops, creams, patches, and inhalers) are not child-resistant and young children can open them easily. To protect young children from poisoning, always lock safety caps and immediately place the medication in a safe location – one that is up and away and out of their sight and reach. http://www.upandaway.org In case of emergency/overdose In case of overdose, call the poison control helpline at 1-800-222-1222. Information is also available online at https://www.poisonhelp.org/help . If the victim has collapsed, had a seizure, has trouble breathing, or can't be awakened, immediately call emergency services at 911. What other information should I know? Keep all appointments with your doctor. Before having any laboratory test, tell your doctor and the laboratory personnel that you are taking medroxyprogesterone. Do not let anyone else take your medication. Ask your pharmacist any questions you have about refilling your prescription. It is important for you to keep a written list of all of the prescription and nonprescription (over-the-counter) medicines you are taking, as well as any products such as vitamins, minerals, or other dietary supplements. You should bring this list with you each time you visit a doctor or if you are admitted to a hospital. It is also important information to carry with you in case of emergencies. Brand names Amen ® ¶ Curretab ® ¶ Cycrin ® ¶ Prodroxy ® ¶ Provera ®

[ Fluoride pronounced as (floor' ide) To use the sharing features on this page, please enable JavaScript. Why is this medication prescribed? How should this medicine be used? What special precautions should I follow? What special dietary instructions should I follow? What should I do if I forget a dose? What side effects can this medication cause? What should I know about storage and disposal of this medication? In case of emergency/overdose What other information should I know? Brand names Why is this medication prescribed? Fluoride is used to prevent tooth decay. It is taken up by teeth and helps to strengthen teeth, resist acid, and block the cavity-forming action of bacteria. Fluoride usually is prescribed for children and adults whose homes have water that is not fluoridated (already has fluoride added). This medication is sometimes prescribed for other uses; ask your doctor or pharmacist for more information. How should this medicine be used? Fluoride comes as a liquid, tablet, and chewable tablet to take by mouth. It usually is taken once daily. Follow the directions on your prescription label carefully, and ask your doctor or pharmacist to explain any part you do not understand. Take fluoride exactly as directed. Do not take more or less of it or take it more often than prescribed by your doctor. The fluoride liquid may be taken straight from the bottle or mixed with cereal, fruit juice, or other foods. Use a dropper or an oral syringe to measure out your dose. Tablets may be dissolved in the mouth, chewed, or added to drinking water or fruit juice. Tablets also may be added to water for use in infant formulas or other food. Fluoride helps to strengthen teeth and prevent cavities; it is not a substitute for brushing or flossing. What special precautions should I follow? Before taking fluoride, tell your doctor and pharmacist if you are allergic to fluoride, tartrazine (a yellow dye in some processed foods and drugs), or any other drugs. tell your doctor and pharmacist what prescription and nonprescription medications you are taking, especially vitamins. Do not take calcium, magnesium, or iron supplements while taking fluoride without checking with your doctor. tell your doctor if you are pregnant, plan to become pregnant, or are breast-feeding. If you become pregnant while taking fluoride, call your doctor. tell your doctor if you are on a low-sodium or sodium-free diet. What special dietary instructions should I follow? Do not eat or drink dairy products 1 hour before or 1 hour after taking fluoride. What should I do if I forget a dose? Take the missed dose as soon as you remember it. However, if it is almost time for the next dose, skip the missed dose and continue your regular dosing schedule. Do not take a double dose to make up for a missed one. What side effects can this medication cause? Fluoride may cause side effects. Tell your doctor if this symptom is severe or does not go away: staining of teeth If you experience any of the following symptoms, call your doctor immediately: unusual increase in saliva salty or soapy taste stomach pain upset stomach vomiting diarrhea rash weakness tremor seizures If you experience a serious side effect, you or your doctor may send a report to the Food and Drug Administration's (FDA) MedWatch Adverse Event Reporting program online ( http://www.fda.gov/Safety/MedWatch ) or by phone (1-800-332-1088). What should I know about storage and disposal of this medication? Keep this medication in the container it came in, tightly closed, and out of reach of children. Store it at room temperature and away from excess heat and moisture (not in the bathroom). It is important to keep all medication out of sight and reach of children as many containers (such as weekly pill minders and those for eye drops, creams, patches, and inhalers) are not child-resistant and young children can open them easily. To protect young children from poisoning, always lock safety caps and immediately place the medication in a safe location – one that is up and away and out of their sight and reach. http://www.upandaway.org Unneeded medications should be disposed of in special ways to ensure that pets, children, and other people cannot consume them. However, you should not flush this medication down the toilet. Instead, the best way to dispose of your medication is through a medicine take-back program. Talk to your pharmacist or contact your local garbage/recycling department to learn about take-back programs in your community. See the FDA's Safe Disposal of Medicines website ( http://goo.gl/c4Rm4p ) for more information if you do not have access to a take-back program. In case of emergency/overdose In case of overdose, call the poison control helpline at 1-800-222-1222. Information is also available online at https://www.poisonhelp.org/help . If the victim has collapsed, had a seizure, has trouble breathing, or can't be awakened, immediately call emergency services at 911. What other information should I know? Keep all appointments with your doctor. Do not let anyone else take your medication. Ask your pharmacist any questions you have about refilling your prescription. It is important for you to keep a written list of all of the prescription and nonprescription (over-the-counter) medicines you are taking, as well as any products such as vitamins, minerals, or other dietary supplements. You should bring this list with you each time you visit a doctor or if you are admitted to a hospital. It is also important information to carry with you in case of emergencies. Brand names ACT ® Advance White ® Aim ® AmerFresh ® AquaFresh ® Charm-Tex ® Clinpro 5000 ® Close Up ® Colgate ® Control Rx ® Crest ® Darby ® Dawn Mist ® Denti-Care ® Epiflur ® Fluor-a-Day ® FluoriSHIELD ® Gelato ® Glister ® Kolorz ® Listerine ® Ludent ® Mentadent ® Opalescence ® Oral Defense ® Oral-B ® Ora-Line ® Ortho Guard ® Pepsodent ® Peroxi-Care ® Pro-Den Rx ® Simply White ® Vortex ® Whole Care ® Xylishield ® Zooby ®



[ Phenylephrine pronounced as (fen il ef' rin)  Phenylephrine is used to relieve nasal discomfort caused by colds, allergies, and hay fever. It is also used to relieve sinus congestion and pressure. Phenylephrine will relieve symptoms but will not treat the cause of the symptoms or speed recovery. Phenylephrine is in a class of medications called nasal decongestants. It works by reducing swelling of the blood vessels in the nasal passages. How should this medicine be used? Phenylephrine comes as a tablet, a liquid, or a dissolving strip to take by mouth. It is usually taken every 4 hours as needed. Follow the directions on your prescription label or the package label carefully, and ask your doctor or pharmacist to explain any part you do not understand. Take phenylephrine exactly as directed. Do not take more or less of it or take it more often than prescribed by your doctor or directed on the label. Phenylephrine comes alone and in combination with other medications. Ask your doctor or pharmacist for advice on which product is best for your symptoms. Check nonprescription cough and cold product labels carefully before using two or more products at the same time. These products may contain the same active ingredient(s) and taking them together could cause you to receive an overdose. This is especially important if you will be giving cough and cold medications to a child. Nonprescription cough and cold combination products, including products that contain phenylephrine, can cause serious side effects or death in young children. Do not give these products to children younger than 4 years of age. If you give these products to children 4 to 11 years of age, use caution and follow the package directions carefully. If you are giving phenylephrine or a combination product that contains phenylephrine to a child, read the package label carefully to be sure that it is the right product for a child of that age. Do not give phenylephrine products that are made for adults to children. Before you give a phenylephrine product to a child, check the package label to find out how much medication the child should receive. Give the dose that matches the child's age on the chart. Ask the child's doctor if you don't know how much medication to give the child. If you are taking the liquid, do not use a household spoon to measure your dose. Use the measuring spoon or cup that came with the medication or use a spoon made especially for measuring medication. If your symptoms do not get better within 7 days or if you have a fever, stop taking phenylephrine and call your doctor. If you are taking the dissolving strips, place one strip on your tongue and allow it to dissolve. Other uses for this medicine This medication may be prescribed for other uses; ask your doctor or pharmacist for more information. What special precautions should I follow? Before taking phenylephrine, tell your doctor and pharmacist if you are allergic to phenylephrine, any other medications, or any of the ingredients in phenylephrine preparations. do not take phenylephrine if you are taking a monoamine oxidase (MAO) inhibitor, such as isocarboxazid (Marplan), phenelzine (Nardil), selegiline (Eldepryl, Emsam, Zelapar), and tranylcypromine (Parnate), or if you have stopped taking one of these medications within the past 2 weeks. tell your doctor and pharmacist what other prescription and nonprescription medications, vitamins, nutritional supplements, and herbal products you are taking or plan to take. tell your doctor if you have or have ever had high blood pressure, diabetes, trouble urinating because of an enlarged prostate gland, or thyroid or heart disease. tell your doctor if you are pregnant, plan to become pregnant, or are breast-feeding. If you become pregnant while taking phenylephrine, call your doctor. if you are having surgery, including dental surgery, tell the doctor or dentist that you are taking phenylephrine. if you have phenylketonuria (PKU, an inherited condition in which a special diet must be followed to prevent damage to your brain that can cause severe intellectual disability), you should know that some phenylephrine products may be sweetened with aspartame, a source of phenylalanine. What special dietary instructions should I follow? Unless your doctor tells you otherwise, continue your normal diet. What should I do if I forget a dose? This medication is usually taken as needed. If your doctor has told you to take phenylephrine regularly, take the missed dose as soon as you remember it. However, if it is almost time for the next dose, skip the missed dose and continue your regular dosing schedule. Do not take a double dose to make up for a missed one. What side effects can this medication cause? Phenylephrine may cause side effects. Some side effects can be serious. If you experience any of these symptoms, stop using phenylephrine and call your doctor: nervousness dizziness sleeplessness Phenylephrine may cause other side effects. Call your doctor if you have any unusual problems while taking this medication. If you experience a serious side effect, you or your doctor may send a report to the Food and Drug Administration's (FDA) MedWatch Adverse Event Reporting program online ( http://www.fda.gov/Safety/MedWatch ) or by phone (1-800-332-1088). What should I know about storage and disposal of this medication? Keep this medication in the container it came in, tightly closed, and out of reach of children. Store it at room temperature and away from excess heat and moisture (not in the bathroom). It is important to keep all medication out of sight and reach of children as many containers (such as weekly pill minders and those for eye drops, creams, patches, and inhalers) are not child-resistant and young children can open them easily. To protect young children from poisoning, always lock safety caps and immediately place the medication in a safe location – one that is up and away and out of their sight and reach. http://www.upandaway.org Unneeded medications should be disposed of in special ways to ensure that pets, children, and other people cannot consume them. However, you should not flush this medication down the toilet. Instead, the best way to dispose of your medication is through a medicine take-back program. Talk to your pharmacist or contact your local garbage/recycling department to learn about take-back programs in your community. See the FDA's Safe Disposal of Medicines website ( http://goo.gl/c4Rm4p ) for more information if you do not have access to a take-back program. In case of emergency/overdose In case of overdose, call the poison control helpline at 1-800-222-1222. Information is also available online at https://www.poisonhelp.org/help . If the victim has collapsed, had a seizure, has trouble breathing, or can't be awakened, immediately call emergency services at 911. What other information should I know? Ask your pharmacist any questions you have about phenylephrine. It is important for you to keep a written list of all of the prescription and nonprescription (over-the-counter) medicines you are taking, as well as any products such as vitamins, minerals, or other dietary supplements. You should bring this list with you each time you visit a doctor or if you are admitted to a hospital. It is also important information to carry with you in case of emergencies. Brand names Children's Sudafed PE Nasal Decongestant ® Lusonal ® § PediaCare Children's Decongestant ® Sudafed PE Congestion ® Suphedrin PE ®









































[ Amitriptyline pronounced as (a mee trip' ti leen) To use the sharing features on this page, please enable JavaScript. Why is this medication prescribed? How should this medicine be used? Other uses for this medicine What special precautions should I follow? What special dietary instructions should I follow? What should I do if I forget a dose? What side effects can this medication cause? What should I know about storage and disposal of this medication? In case of emergency/overdose What other information should I know? Brand names IMPORTANT WARNING: A small number of children, teenagers, and young adults (up to 24 years of age) who took antidepressants ('mood elevators') such as amitriptyline during clinical studies became suicidal (thinking about harming or killing oneself or planning or trying to do so). Children, teenagers, and young adults who take antidepressants to treat depression or other mental illnesses may be more likely to become suicidal than children, teenagers, and young adults who do not take antidepressants to treat these conditions. However, experts are not sure about how great this risk is and how much it should be considered in deciding whether a child or teenager should take an antidepressant. Children younger than 18 years of age should not normally take amitriptyline, but in some cases, a doctor may decide that amitriptyline is the best medication to treat a child's condition. You should know that your mental health may change in unexpected ways when you take amitriptyline or other antidepressants even if you are an adult over age 24. You may become suicidal, especially at the beginning of your treatment and any time that your dose is increased or decreased. You, your family, or your caregiver should call your doctor right away if you experience any of the following symptoms: new or worsening depression; thinking about harming or killing yourself, or planning or trying to do so; extreme worry; agitation; panic attacks; difficulty falling asleep or staying asleep; aggressive behavior; irritability; acting without thinking; severe restlessness; and frenzied abnormal excitement. Be sure that your family or caregiver knows which symptoms may be serious so they can call the doctor when you are unable to seek treatment on your own. Your healthcare provider will want to see you often while you are taking amitriptyline, especially at the beginning of your treatment. Be sure to keep all appointments for office visits with your doctor. The doctor or pharmacist will give you the manufacturer's patient information sheet (Medication Guide) when you begin treatment with amitriptyline. Read the information carefully and ask your doctor or pharmacist if you have any questions. You also can obtain the Medication Guide from the FDA website: http://www.fda.gov/Drugs/DrugSafety/ucm085729.htm . No matter your age, before you take an antidepressant, you, your parent, or your caregiver should talk to your doctor about the risks and benefits of treating your condition with an antidepressant or with other treatments. You should also talk about the risks and benefits of not treating your condition. You should know that having depression or another mental illness greatly increases the risk that you will become suicidal. This risk is higher if you or anyone in your family has or has ever had bipolar disorder (mood that changes from depressed to abnormally excited) or mania (frenzied, abnormally excited mood) or has thought about or attempted suicide. Talk to your doctor about your condition, symptoms, and personal and family medical history. You and your doctor will decide what type of treatment is right for you. Why is this medication prescribed? Amitriptyline is used to treat symptoms of depression. Amitriptyline is in a class of medications called tricyclic antidepressants. It works by increasing the amounts of certain natural substances in the brain that are needed to maintain mental balance. How should this medicine be used? Amitriptyline comes as a tablet to take by mouth. It is usually taken one to four times a day. Take amitriptyline at around the same time(s) every day. Follow the directions on your prescription label carefully, and ask your doctor or pharmacist to explain any part you do not understand. Take amitriptyline exactly as directed. Do not take more or less of it or take it more often than prescribed by your doctor. Your doctor will probably start you on a low dose of amitriptyline and gradually increase your dose. It may take a few weeks or longer before you feel the full benefit of amitriptyline. Continue to take amitriptyline even if you feel well. Do not stop taking amitriptyline without talking to your doctor. If you suddenly stop taking amitriptyline, you may experience withdrawal symptoms such as nausea, headache, and lack of energy. Your doctor will probably decrease your dose gradually. Other uses for this medicine Amitriptyline is also used to treat eating disorders, post-herpetic neuralgia (the burning, stabbing pains, or aches that may last for months or years after a shingles infection), and to prevent migraine headaches. Talk to your doctor about the possible risks of using this medication for your condition. This medication may be prescribed for other uses; ask your doctor or pharmacist for more information. What special precautions should I follow? Before taking amitriptyline, tell your doctor and pharmacist if you are allergic to amitriptyline or any other medications. Some medications should not be taken with amitriptyline. Other medications may cause dosing changes or extra monitoring when taken with amitriptyline. Make sure you have discussed any medications you are currently taking or plan to take before starting amitriptyline with your doctor and pharmacist. Before starting, stopping, or changing any medications while taking amitriptyline, please get the advice of your doctor or pharmacist.. Tell your doctor or pharmacist if you are taking the following medications or have stopped taking them within the past two weeks: monoamine oxidase (MAO) inhibitors such as isocarboxazid (Marplan), phenelzine (Nardil), selegiline (Eldepryl, Emsam, Zelapar), and tranylcypromine (Parnate). The following nonprescription products may interact with amitriptyline: allergy medications (diphenhydramine, loratadine, fexofenadine, chlorpheniramine or cetirizine); cimetidine (Tagamet). Be sure to let your doctor and pharmacist know that you are taking these medications before you start taking amitriptyline. Do not start any of these medications while taking amitriptyline without discussing with your healthcare provider.. tell your doctor if you have recently had a heart attack. Your doctor will probably tell you not to take amitriptyline. tell your doctor if you drink large amounts of alcohol and if you have or have ever had glaucoma (an eye condition); an enlarged prostate (a male reproductive gland); difficulty urinating; seizures; an overactive thyroid gland (hyperthyroidism); diabetes; schizophrenia (a mental illness that causes disturbed or unusual thinking, loss of interest in life, and strong or inappropriate emotions); or liver, kidney, or heart disease. tell your doctor if you are pregnant or plan to become pregnant. If you become pregnant while taking amitriptyline, call your doctor. Do not breast-feed while you are taking amitriptyline. talk to your doctor about the risks and benefits of taking this medication if you are 65 years of age or older. Older adults should not usually take amitriptyline because it is not as safe or effective as other medication(s) that can be used to treat the same condition. if you are having surgery, including dental surgery, tell the doctor or dentist that you are taking amitriptyline. you should know that amitriptyline may make you drowsy. Do not drive a car or operate machinery until you know how this medication affects you. remember that alcohol can add to the drowsiness caused by this medication. What special dietary instructions should I follow? Unless your doctor tells you otherwise, continue your normal diet. What should I do if I forget a dose? Take the missed dose as soon as you remember it. However, if it is almost time for the next dose, skip the missed dose and continue your regular dosing schedule. Do not take a double dose to make up for a missed one. What side effects can this medication cause? Amitriptyline may cause side effects. Tell your doctor if any of these symptoms are severe or do not go away: nausea vomiting drowsiness weakness or tiredness nightmares headaches dry mouth constipation difficulty urinating blurred vision pain, burning, or tingling in the hands or feet changes in sex drive or ability excessive sweating changes in appetite or weight confusion unsteadiness Some side effects can be serious. If you experience any of the following symptoms or those listed in the IMPORTANT WARNING section, call your doctor immediately: slow or difficult speech dizziness or faintness weakness or numbness of an arm or a leg crushing chest pain rapid, pounding, or irregular heartbeat severe skin rash or hives swelling of the face and tongue yellowing of the skin or eyes jaw, neck, and back muscle spasms uncontrollable shaking of a part of the body fainting unusual bleeding or bruising seizures hallucinating (seeing things or hearing voices that do not exist) Amitriptyline may cause other side effects. Call your doctor if you have any unusual problems while taking this medication. If you experience a serious side effect, you or your doctor may send a report to the Food and Drug Administration's (FDA) MedWatch Adverse Event Reporting program online ( http://www.fda.gov/Safety/MedWatch ) or by phone (1-800-332-1088). What should I know about storage and disposal of this medication? Keep this medication in the container it came in, tightly closed, and out of reach of children. Store it at room temperature and away from excess heat and moisture (not in the bathroom). Unneeded medications should be disposed of in special ways to ensure that pets, children, and other people cannot consume them. However, you should not flush this medication down the toilet. Instead, the best way to dispose of your medication is through a medicine take-back program. Talk to your pharmacist or contact your local garbage/recycling department to learn about take-back programs in your community. See the FDA's Safe Disposal of Medicines website ( http://goo.gl/c4Rm4p ) for more information if you do not have access to a take-back program. It is important to keep all medication out of sight and reach of children as many containers (such as weekly pill minders and those for eye drops, creams, patches, and inhalers) are not child-resistant and young children can open them easily. To protect young children from poisoning, always lock safety caps and immediately place the medication in a safe location – one that is up and away and out of their sight and reach. http://www.upandaway.org In case of emergency/overdose In case of overdose, call the poison control helpline at 1-800-222-1222. Information is also available online at https://www.poisonhelp.org/help . If the victim has collapsed, had a seizure, has trouble breathing, or can't be awakened, immediately call emergency services at 911. Symptoms of overdose may include: irregular heartbeat seizures coma (loss of consciousness for a period of time) confusion problems concentrating hallucinating (seeing things or hearing voices that do not exist) agitation drowsiness rigid muscles vomiting fever cold body temperature What other information should I know? Keep all appointments with your doctor and the laboratory. Your doctor may order certain lab tests to check your body's response to amitriptyline. Do not let anyone else take your medication. Ask your pharmacist any questions you have about refilling your prescription. It is important for you to keep a written list of all of the prescription and nonprescription (over-the-counter) medicines you are taking, as well as any products such as vitamins, minerals, or other dietary supplements. You should bring this list with you each time you visit a doctor or if you are admitted to a hospital. It is also important information to carry with you in case of emergencies. Brand names Amitid ® ¶ Amitril ® ¶ Elavil ® ¶ Endep ® ¶



[ Amitriptyline pronounced as (a mee trip' ti leen) To use the sharing features on this page, please enable JavaScript. Why is this medication prescribed? How should this medicine be used? Other uses for this medicine What special precautions should I follow? What special dietary instructions should I follow? What should I do if I forget a dose? What side effects can this medication cause? What should I know about storage and disposal of this medication? In case of emergency/overdose What other information should I know? Brand names IMPORTANT WARNING: A small number of children, teenagers, and young adults (up to 24 years of age) who took antidepressants ('mood elevators') such as amitriptyline during clinical studies became suicidal (thinking about harming or killing oneself or planning or trying to do so). Children, teenagers, and young adults who take antidepressants to treat depression or other mental illnesses may be more likely to become suicidal than children, teenagers, and young adults who do not take antidepressants to treat these conditions. However, experts are not sure about how great this risk is and how much it should be considered in deciding whether a child or teenager should take an antidepressant. Children younger than 18 years of age should not normally take amitriptyline, but in some cases, a doctor may decide that amitriptyline is the best medication to treat a child's condition. You should know that your mental health may change in unexpected ways when you take amitriptyline or other antidepressants even if you are an adult over age 24. You may become suicidal, especially at the beginning of your treatment and any time that your dose is increased or decreased. You, your family, or your caregiver should call your doctor right away if you experience any of the following symptoms: new or worsening depression; thinking about harming or killing yourself, or planning or trying to do so; extreme worry; agitation; panic attacks; difficulty falling asleep or staying asleep; aggressive behavior; irritability; acting without thinking; severe restlessness; and frenzied abnormal excitement. Be sure that your family or caregiver knows which symptoms may be serious so they can call the doctor when you are unable to seek treatment on your own. Your healthcare provider will want to see you often while you are taking amitriptyline, especially at the beginning of your treatment. Be sure to keep all appointments for office visits with your doctor. The doctor or pharmacist will give you the manufacturer's patient information sheet (Medication Guide) when you begin treatment with amitriptyline. Read the information carefully and ask your doctor or pharmacist if you have any questions. You also can obtain the Medication Guide from the FDA website: http://www.fda.gov/Drugs/DrugSafety/ucm085729.htm . No matter your age, before you take an antidepressant, you, your parent, or your caregiver should talk to your doctor about the risks and benefits of treating your condition with an antidepressant or with other treatments. You should also talk about the risks and benefits of not treating your condition. You should know that having depression or another mental illness greatly increases the risk that you will become suicidal. This risk is higher if you or anyone in your family has or has ever had bipolar disorder (mood that changes from depressed to abnormally excited) or mania (frenzied, abnormally excited mood) or has thought about or attempted suicide. Talk to your doctor about your condition, symptoms, and personal and family medical history. You and your doctor will decide what type of treatment is right for you. Why is this medication prescribed? Amitriptyline is used to treat symptoms of depression. Amitriptyline is in a class of medications called tricyclic antidepressants. It works by increasing the amounts of certain natural substances in the brain that are needed to maintain mental balance. How should this medicine be used? Amitriptyline comes as a tablet to take by mouth. It is usually taken one to four times a day. Take amitriptyline at around the same time(s) every day. Follow the directions on your prescription label carefully, and ask your doctor or pharmacist to explain any part you do not understand. Take amitriptyline exactly as directed. Do not take more or less of it or take it more often than prescribed by your doctor. Your doctor will probably start you on a low dose of amitriptyline and gradually increase your dose. It may take a few weeks or longer before you feel the full benefit of amitriptyline. Continue to take amitriptyline even if you feel well. Do not stop taking amitriptyline without talking to your doctor. If you suddenly stop taking amitriptyline, you may experience withdrawal symptoms such as nausea, headache, and lack of energy. Your doctor will probably decrease your dose gradually. Other uses for this medicine Amitriptyline is also used to treat eating disorders, post-herpetic neuralgia (the burning, stabbing pains, or aches that may last for months or years after a shingles infection), and to prevent migraine headaches. Talk to your doctor about the possible risks of using this medication for your condition. This medication may be prescribed for other uses; ask your doctor or pharmacist for more information. What special precautions should I follow? Before taking amitriptyline, tell your doctor and pharmacist if you are allergic to amitriptyline or any other medications. Some medications should not be taken with amitriptyline. Other medications may cause dosing changes or extra monitoring when taken with amitriptyline. Make sure you have discussed any medications you are currently taking or plan to take before starting amitriptyline with your doctor and pharmacist. Before starting, stopping, or changing any medications while taking amitriptyline, please get the advice of your doctor or pharmacist.. Tell your doctor or pharmacist if you are taking the following medications or have stopped taking them within the past two weeks: monoamine oxidase (MAO) inhibitors such as isocarboxazid (Marplan), phenelzine (Nardil), selegiline (Eldepryl, Emsam, Zelapar), and tranylcypromine (Parnate). The following nonprescription products may interact with amitriptyline: allergy medications (diphenhydramine, loratadine, fexofenadine, chlorpheniramine or cetirizine); cimetidine (Tagamet). Be sure to let your doctor and pharmacist know that you are taking these medications before you start taking amitriptyline. Do not start any of these medications while taking amitriptyline without discussing with your healthcare provider.. tell your doctor if you have recently had a heart attack. Your doctor will probably tell you not to take amitriptyline. tell your doctor if you drink large amounts of alcohol and if you have or have ever had glaucoma (an eye condition); an enlarged prostate (a male reproductive gland); difficulty urinating; seizures; an overactive thyroid gland (hyperthyroidism); diabetes; schizophrenia (a mental illness that causes disturbed or unusual thinking, loss of interest in life, and strong or inappropriate emotions); or liver, kidney, or heart disease. tell your doctor if you are pregnant or plan to become pregnant. If you become pregnant while taking amitriptyline, call your doctor. Do not breast-feed while you are taking amitriptyline. talk to your doctor about the risks and benefits of taking this medication if you are 65 years of age or older. Older adults should not usually take amitriptyline because it is not as safe or effective as other medication(s) that can be used to treat the same condition. if you are having surgery, including dental surgery, tell the doctor or dentist that you are taking amitriptyline. you should know that amitriptyline may make you drowsy. Do not drive a car or operate machinery until you know how this medication affects you. remember that alcohol can add to the drowsiness caused by this medication. What special dietary instructions should I follow? Unless your doctor tells you otherwise, continue your normal diet. What should I do if I forget a dose? Take the missed dose as soon as you remember it. However, if it is almost time for the next dose, skip the missed dose and continue your regular dosing schedule. Do not take a double dose to make up for a missed one. What side effects can this medication cause? Amitriptyline may cause side effects. Tell your doctor if any of these symptoms are severe or do not go away: nausea vomiting drowsiness weakness or tiredness nightmares headaches dry mouth constipation difficulty urinating blurred vision pain, burning, or tingling in the hands or feet changes in sex drive or ability excessive sweating changes in appetite or weight confusion unsteadiness Some side effects can be serious. If you experience any of the following symptoms or those listed in the IMPORTANT WARNING section, call your doctor immediately: slow or difficult speech dizziness or faintness weakness or numbness of an arm or a leg crushing chest pain rapid, pounding, or irregular heartbeat severe skin rash or hives swelling of the face and tongue yellowing of the skin or eyes jaw, neck, and back muscle spasms uncontrollable shaking of a part of the body fainting unusual bleeding or bruising seizures hallucinating (seeing things or hearing voices that do not exist) Amitriptyline may cause other side effects. Call your doctor if you have any unusual problems while taking this medication. If you experience a serious side effect, you or your doctor may send a report to the Food and Drug Administration's (FDA) MedWatch Adverse Event Reporting program online ( http://www.fda.gov/Safety/MedWatch ) or by phone (1-800-332-1088). What should I know about storage and disposal of this medication? Keep this medication in the container it came in, tightly closed, and out of reach of children. Store it at room temperature and away from excess heat and moisture (not in the bathroom). Unneeded medications should be disposed of in special ways to ensure that pets, children, and other people cannot consume them. However, you should not flush this medication down the toilet. Instead, the best way to dispose of your medication is through a medicine take-back program. Talk to your pharmacist or contact your local garbage/recycling department to learn about take-back programs in your community. See the FDA's Safe Disposal of Medicines website ( http://goo.gl/c4Rm4p ) for more information if you do not have access to a take-back program. It is important to keep all medication out of sight and reach of children as many containers (such as weekly pill minders and those for eye drops, creams, patches, and inhalers) are not child-resistant and young children can open them easily. To protect young children from poisoning, always lock safety caps and immediately place the medication in a safe location – one that is up and away and out of their sight and reach. http://www.upandaway.org In case of emergency/overdose In case of overdose, call the poison control helpline at 1-800-222-1222. Information is also available online at https://www.poisonhelp.org/help . If the victim has collapsed, had a seizure, has trouble breathing, or can't be awakened, immediately call emergency services at 911. Symptoms of overdose may include: irregular heartbeat seizures coma (loss of consciousness for a period of time) confusion problems concentrating hallucinating (seeing things or hearing voices that do not exist) agitation drowsiness rigid muscles vomiting fever cold body temperature What other information should I know? Keep all appointments with your doctor and the laboratory. Your doctor may order certain lab tests to check your body's response to amitriptyline. Do not let anyone else take your medication. Ask your pharmacist any questions you have about refilling your prescription. It is important for you to keep a written list of all of the prescription and nonprescription (over-the-counter) medicines you are taking, as well as any products such as vitamins, minerals, or other dietary supplements. You should bring this list with you each time you visit a doctor or if you are admitted to a hospital. It is also important information to carry with you in case of emergencies. Brand names Amitid ® ¶ Amitril ® ¶ Elavil ® ¶ Endep ® ¶

[ Amitriptyline pronounced as (a mee trip' ti leen) To use the sharing features on this page, please enable JavaScript. Why is this medication prescribed? How should this medicine be used? Other uses for this medicine What special precautions should I follow? What special dietary instructions should I follow? What should I do if I forget a dose? What side effects can this medication cause? What should I know about storage and disposal of this medication? In case of emergency/overdose What other information should I know? Brand names IMPORTANT WARNING: A small number of children, teenagers, and young adults (up to 24 years of age) who took antidepressants ('mood elevators') such as amitriptyline during clinical studies became suicidal (thinking about harming or killing oneself or planning or trying to do so). Children, teenagers, and young adults who take antidepressants to treat depression or other mental illnesses may be more likely to become suicidal than children, teenagers, and young adults who do not take antidepressants to treat these conditions. However, experts are not sure about how great this risk is and how much it should be considered in deciding whether a child or teenager should take an antidepressant. Children younger than 18 years of age should not normally take amitriptyline, but in some cases, a doctor may decide that amitriptyline is the best medication to treat a child's condition. You should know that your mental health may change in unexpected ways when you take amitriptyline or other antidepressants even if you are an adult over age 24. You may become suicidal, especially at the beginning of your treatment and any time that your dose is increased or decreased. You, your family, or your caregiver should call your doctor right away if you experience any of the following symptoms: new or worsening depression; thinking about harming or killing yourself, or planning or trying to do so; extreme worry; agitation; panic attacks; difficulty falling asleep or staying asleep; aggressive behavior; irritability; acting without thinking; severe restlessness; and frenzied abnormal excitement. Be sure that your family or caregiver knows which symptoms may be serious so they can call the doctor when you are unable to seek treatment on your own. Your healthcare provider will want to see you often while you are taking amitriptyline, especially at the beginning of your treatment. Be sure to keep all appointments for office visits with your doctor. The doctor or pharmacist will give you the manufacturer's patient information sheet (Medication Guide) when you begin treatment with amitriptyline. Read the information carefully and ask your doctor or pharmacist if you have any questions. You also can obtain the Medication Guide from the FDA website: http://www.fda.gov/Drugs/DrugSafety/ucm085729.htm . No matter your age, before you take an antidepressant, you, your parent, or your caregiver should talk to your doctor about the risks and benefits of treating your condition with an antidepressant or with other treatments. You should also talk about the risks and benefits of not treating your condition. You should know that having depression or another mental illness greatly increases the risk that you will become suicidal. This risk is higher if you or anyone in your family has or has ever had bipolar disorder (mood that changes from depressed to abnormally excited) or mania (frenzied, abnormally excited mood) or has thought about or attempted suicide. Talk to your doctor about your condition, symptoms, and personal and family medical history. You and your doctor will decide what type of treatment is right for you. Why is this medication prescribed? Amitriptyline is used to treat symptoms of depression. Amitriptyline is in a class of medications called tricyclic antidepressants. It works by increasing the amounts of certain natural substances in the brain that are needed to maintain mental balance. How should this medicine be used? Amitriptyline comes as a tablet to take by mouth. It is usually taken one to four times a day. Take amitriptyline at around the same time(s) every day. Follow the directions on your prescription label carefully, and ask your doctor or pharmacist to explain any part you do not understand. Take amitriptyline exactly as directed. Do not take more or less of it or take it more often than prescribed by your doctor. Your doctor will probably start you on a low dose of amitriptyline and gradually increase your dose. It may take a few weeks or longer before you feel the full benefit of amitriptyline. Continue to take amitriptyline even if you feel well. Do not stop taking amitriptyline without talking to your doctor. If you suddenly stop taking amitriptyline, you may experience withdrawal symptoms such as nausea, headache, and lack of energy. Your doctor will probably decrease your dose gradually. Other uses for this medicine Amitriptyline is also used to treat eating disorders, post-herpetic neuralgia (the burning, stabbing pains, or aches that may last for months or years after a shingles infection), and to prevent migraine headaches. Talk to your doctor about the possible risks of using this medication for your condition. This medication may be prescribed for other uses; ask your doctor or pharmacist for more information. What special precautions should I follow? Before taking amitriptyline, tell your doctor and pharmacist if you are allergic to amitriptyline or any other medications. Some medications should not be taken with amitriptyline. Other medications may cause dosing changes or extra monitoring when taken with amitriptyline. Make sure you have discussed any medications you are currently taking or plan to take before starting amitriptyline with your doctor and pharmacist. Before starting, stopping, or changing any medications while taking amitriptyline, please get the advice of your doctor or pharmacist.. Tell your doctor or pharmacist if you are taking the following medications or have stopped taking them within the past two weeks: monoamine oxidase (MAO) inhibitors such as isocarboxazid (Marplan), phenelzine (Nardil), selegiline (Eldepryl, Emsam, Zelapar), and tranylcypromine (Parnate). The following nonprescription products may interact with amitriptyline: allergy medications (diphenhydramine, loratadine, fexofenadine, chlorpheniramine or cetirizine); cimetidine (Tagamet). Be sure to let your doctor and pharmacist know that you are taking these medications before you start taking amitriptyline. Do not start any of these medications while taking amitriptyline without discussing with your healthcare provider.. tell your doctor if you have recently had a heart attack. Your doctor will probably tell you not to take amitriptyline. tell your doctor if you drink large amounts of alcohol and if you have or have ever had glaucoma (an eye condition); an enlarged prostate (a male reproductive gland); difficulty urinating; seizures; an overactive thyroid gland (hyperthyroidism); diabetes; schizophrenia (a mental illness that causes disturbed or unusual thinking, loss of interest in life, and strong or inappropriate emotions); or liver, kidney, or heart disease. tell your doctor if you are pregnant or plan to become pregnant. If you become pregnant while taking amitriptyline, call your doctor. Do not breast-feed while you are taking amitriptyline. talk to your doctor about the risks and benefits of taking this medication if you are 65 years of age or older. Older adults should not usually take amitriptyline because it is not as safe or effective as other medication(s) that can be used to treat the same condition. if you are having surgery, including dental surgery, tell the doctor or dentist that you are taking amitriptyline. you should know that amitriptyline may make you drowsy. Do not drive a car or operate machinery until you know how this medication affects you. remember that alcohol can add to the drowsiness caused by this medication. What special dietary instructions should I follow? Unless your doctor tells you otherwise, continue your normal diet. What should I do if I forget a dose? Take the missed dose as soon as you remember it. However, if it is almost time for the next dose, skip the missed dose and continue your regular dosing schedule. Do not take a double dose to make up for a missed one. What side effects can this medication cause? Amitriptyline may cause side effects. Tell your doctor if any of these symptoms are severe or do not go away: nausea vomiting drowsiness weakness or tiredness nightmares headaches dry mouth constipation difficulty urinating blurred vision pain, burning, or tingling in the hands or feet changes in sex drive or ability excessive sweating changes in appetite or weight confusion unsteadiness Some side effects can be serious. If you experience any of the following symptoms or those listed in the IMPORTANT WARNING section, call your doctor immediately: slow or difficult speech dizziness or faintness weakness or numbness of an arm or a leg crushing chest pain rapid, pounding, or irregular heartbeat severe skin rash or hives swelling of the face and tongue yellowing of the skin or eyes jaw, neck, and back muscle spasms uncontrollable shaking of a part of the body fainting unusual bleeding or bruising seizures hallucinating (seeing things or hearing voices that do not exist) Amitriptyline may cause other side effects. Call your doctor if you have any unusual problems while taking this medication. If you experience a serious side effect, you or your doctor may send a report to the Food and Drug Administration's (FDA) MedWatch Adverse Event Reporting program online ( http://www.fda.gov/Safety/MedWatch ) or by phone (1-800-332-1088). What should I know about storage and disposal of this medication? Keep this medication in the container it came in, tightly closed, and out of reach of children. Store it at room temperature and away from excess heat and moisture (not in the bathroom). Unneeded medications should be disposed of in special ways to ensure that pets, children, and other people cannot consume them. However, you should not flush this medication down the toilet. Instead, the best way to dispose of your medication is through a medicine take-back program. Talk to your pharmacist or contact your local garbage/recycling department to learn about take-back programs in your community. See the FDA's Safe Disposal of Medicines website ( http://goo.gl/c4Rm4p ) for more information if you do not have access to a take-back program. It is important to keep all medication out of sight and reach of children as many containers (such as weekly pill minders and those for eye drops, creams, patches, and inhalers) are not child-resistant and young children can open them easily. To protect young children from poisoning, always lock safety caps and immediately place the medication in a safe location – one that is up and away and out of their sight and reach. http://www.upandaway.org In case of emergency/overdose In case of overdose, call the poison control helpline at 1-800-222-1222. Information is also available online at https://www.poisonhelp.org/help . If the victim has collapsed, had a seizure, has trouble breathing, or can't be awakened, immediately call emergency services at 911. Symptoms of overdose may include: irregular heartbeat seizures coma (loss of consciousness for a period of time) confusion problems concentrating hallucinating (seeing things or hearing voices that do not exist) agitation drowsiness rigid muscles vomiting fever cold body temperature What other information should I know? Keep all appointments with your doctor and the laboratory. Your doctor may order certain lab tests to check your body's response to amitriptyline. Do not let anyone else take your medication. Ask your pharmacist any questions you have about refilling your prescription. It is important for you to keep a written list of all of the prescription and nonprescription (over-the-counter) medicines you are taking, as well as any products such as vitamins, minerals, or other dietary supplements. You should bring this list with you each time you visit a doctor or if you are admitted to a hospital. It is also important information to carry with you in case of emergencies. Brand names Amitid ® ¶ Amitril ® ¶ Elavil ® ¶ Endep ® ¶









[ Amlodipine pronounced as (am loe' di peen)  Amlodipine is used alone or in combination with other medications to treat high blood pressure in adults and children 6 years and older. It is also used to treat certain types of angina (chest pain) and coronary artery disease (narrowing of the blood vessels that supply blood to the heart). Amlodipine is in a class of medications called calcium channel blockers. It lowers blood pressure by relaxing the blood vessels so the heart does not have to pump as hard. It controls chest pain by increasing the supply of blood to the heart. If taken regularly, amlodipine controls chest pain, but it does not stop chest pain once it starts. Your doctor may prescribe a different medication to take when you have chest pain. High blood pressure is a common condition and when not treated, can cause damage to the brain, heart, blood vessels, kidneys and other parts of the body. Damage to these organs may cause heart disease, a heart attack, heart failure, stroke, kidney failure, loss of vision, and other problems. In addition to taking medication, making lifestyle changes will also help to control your blood pressure. These changes include eating a diet that is low in fat and salt, maintaining a healthy weight, exercising at least 30 minutes most days, not smoking, and using alcohol in moderation. How should this medicine be used? Amlodipine comes as a tablet and an suspension (liquid) to take by mouth. It is usually taken once a day. To help you remember to take amlodipine, take it around the same time every day. Follow the directions on your prescription label carefully, and ask your doctor or pharmacist to explain any part you do not understand. Take amlodipine exactly as directed. Do not take more or less of it or take it more often than prescribed by your doctor. Shake the suspension well before each use to mix the medication evenly. Your doctor will probably start you on a low dose of amlodipine and gradually increase your dose. Amlodipine helps to control high blood pressure, angina, and coronary artery disease, but does not cure these conditions. Continue to take amlodipine even if you feel well. Do not stop taking amlodipine without talking to your doctor. Other uses for this medicine This medication may be prescribed for other uses; ask your doctor or pharmacist for more information. What special precautions should I follow? Before taking amlodipine, tell your doctor and pharmacist if you are allergic to amlodipine, any other medications, or any ingredients in amlodipine tablets or suspension. Ask your pharmacist for a list of the ingredients. tell your doctor and pharmacist what prescription and nonprescription medications, vitamins, nutritional supplements, and herbal products you are taking or plan to take. Be sure to mention any of the following: certain medications for seizures such as carbamazepine (Carbatrol, Equetro, Tegretol), phenytoin (Dilantin, Phenytek), and phenobarbital; clarithromycin (Biaxin, in Prevpac); cyclosporine (Gengraf, Neoral, Sandimmune); efavirenz (Sustiva); indinavir (Crixivan); itraconazole (Onmel, Sporanox); ketoconazole (Nizoral); lovastatin (Altoprev, in Advicor); nefazodone; nelfinavir (Viracept); nevirapine (Viramune); rifabutin (Mycobutin); rifampin (Rifadin, Rimactane, in Rifamate), ritonavir (Norvir, in Kaletra), simvastatin (Zocor, in Simcor, in Vytorin), and tacrolimus (Astragraf SL, Prograf). Your doctor may need to change the doses of your medications or monitor you carefully for side effects. tell your doctor if you have or have ever had heart failure or heart or liver disease. tell your doctor if you are pregnant, plan to become pregnant, or are breast-feeding. If you become pregnant while taking amlodipine, call your doctor. What special dietary instructions should I follow? If your doctor prescribes a low-salt or low-sodium diet, follow these directions carefully. What should I do if I forget a dose? Take the missed dose as soon as you remember it. However, if it is almost time for the next dose, skip the missed dose and continue your regular dosing schedule. Do not take a double dose to make up for a missed one. What side effects can this medication cause? Amlodipine may cause side effects. Tell your doctor if any of these symptoms are severe or do not go away: swelling of the hands, feet, ankles, or lower legs headache upset stomach nausea stomach pain dizziness or lightheadedness drowsiness excessive tiredness flushing Some side effects can be serious. If you experience any of these symptoms, call your doctor immediately or get emergency medical treatment: more frequent or more severe chest pain rapid, pounding, or irregular heartbeat fainting If you experience a serious side effect, you or your doctor may send a report to the Food and Drug Administration's (FDA) MedWatch Adverse Event Reporting program online ( http://www.fda.gov/Safety/MedWatch ) or by phone (1-800-332-1088). What should I know about storage and disposal of this medication? Keep this medication in the container it came in, tightly closed, and out of reach of children. Store the tablets at room temperature and away from excess heat and moisture (not in the bathroom). Store the suspension in the refrigerator and avoid freezing; protect it from light. It is important to keep all medication out of sight and reach of children as many containers (such as weekly pill minders and those for eye drops, creams, patches, and inhalers) are not child-resistant and young children can open them easily. To protect young children from poisoning, always lock safety caps and immediately place the medication in a safe location – one that is up and away and out of their sight and reach. http://www.upandaway.org Unneeded medications should be disposed of in special ways to ensure that pets, children, and other people cannot consume them. However, you should not flush this medication down the toilet. Instead, the best way to dispose of your medication is through a medicine take-back program. Talk to your pharmacist or contact your local garbage/recycling department to learn about take-back programs in your community. See the FDA's Safe Disposal of Medicines website ( http://goo.gl/c4Rm4p ) for more information if you do not have access to a take-back program. In case of emergency/overdose In case of overdose, call the poison control helpline at 1-800-222-1222. Information is also available online at https://www.poisonhelp.org/help . If the victim has collapsed, had a seizure, has trouble breathing, or can't be awakened, immediately call emergency services at 911. Symptoms of overdose may include: dizziness fainting rapid heartbeat What other information should I know? Keep all appointments with your doctor. Your blood pressure should be checked regularly to determine your response to amlodipine. Do not let anyone else take your medication. Ask your pharmacist any questions you have about refilling your prescription. It is important for you to keep a written list of all of the prescription and nonprescription (over-the-counter) medicines you are taking, as well as any products such as vitamins, minerals, or other dietary supplements. You should bring this list with you each time you visit a doctor or if you are admitted to a hospital. It is also important information to carry with you in case of emergencies. Brand names Amvaz ® ¶ Katerzia ® Norvasc ®







[ Estrogen pronounced as (ess' troe jen) To use the sharing features on this page, please enable JavaScript. Why is this medication prescribed? How should this medicine be used? Other uses for this medicine What special precautions should I follow? What special dietary instructions should I follow? What should I do if I forget a dose? What side effects can this medication cause? What should I know about storage and disposal of this medication? In case of emergency/overdose What other information should I know? Brand names Other names IMPORTANT WARNING: Estrogen increases the risk that you will develop endometrial cancer (cancer of the lining of the uterus [womb]). The longer you take estrogen, the greater the risk that you will develop endometrial cancer. If you have not had a hysterectomy (surgery to remove the uterus), you should be given another medication called a progestin to take with estrogen. This may decrease your risk of developing endometrial cancer, but may increase your risk of developing certain other health problems, including breast cancer. Before you begin taking estrogen, tell your doctor if you have or have ever had cancer and if you have unusual vaginal bleeding. Call your doctor immediately if you have abnormal or unusual vaginal bleeding during your treatment with estrogen. Your doctor will watch you closely to help ensure you do not develop endometrial cancer during or after your treatment. In a large study, women who took estrogen with progestins had a higher risk of heart attacks, strokes, blood clots in the lungs or legs, breast cancer, and dementia (loss of ability to think, learn, and understand). Women who take estrogen alone may also have a higher risk of developing these conditions. Tell your doctor if you smoke or use tobacco, if you have had a heart attack or a stroke in the past year, and if you or anyone in your family has or has ever had blood clots or breast cancer. Also tell your doctor if you have or have ever had high blood pressure, high blood levels of cholesterol or fats, diabetes, heart disease, lupus (a condition in which the body attacks its own tissues causing damage and swelling), breast lumps, or an abnormal mammogram (x-ray of the breast used to find breast cancer). The following symptoms can be signs of the serious health conditions listed above. Call your doctor immediately if you experience any of the following symptoms while you are taking estrogen: sudden, severe headache; sudden, severe vomiting; speech problems; dizziness or faintness; sudden complete or partial loss of vision;double vision; weakness or numbness of an arm or a leg; crushing chest pain or chest heaviness; coughing up blood; sudden shortness of breath; difficulty thinking clearly, remembering, or learning new things; breast lumps or other breast changes; discharge from nipples; or pain, tenderness, or redness in one leg. You can take steps to decrease the risk that you will develop a serious health problem while you are taking estrogen. Do not take estrogen alone or with a progestin to prevent heart disease, heart attacks, strokes, or dementia. Take the lowest dose of estrogen that controls your symptoms and only take estrogen as long as needed. Talk to your doctor every 3 to 6 months to decide if you should take a lower dose of estrogen or should stop taking the medication. You should examine your breasts every month and have a mammogram and a breast exam performed by a doctor every year to help detect breast cancer as early as possible. Your doctor will tell you how to properly examine your breasts and whether you should have these exams more often than once a year because of your personal or family medical history. Tell your doctor if you are having surgery or will be on bed rest. Your doctor may tell you to stop taking estrogen 4 to 6 weeks before the surgery or bed rest to decrease the risk that you will develop blood clots. Talk to your doctor regularly about the risks and benefits of taking estrogen. Why is this medication prescribed? Estrogen is used to treat hot flushes ('hot flashes'; sudden strong feelings of heat and sweating) in women who are experiencing menopause ('change of life', the end of monthly menstrual periods). Some brands of estrogen are also used to treat vaginal dryness, itching, or burning, or to prevent osteoporosis (a condition in which the bones become thin and weak and break easily) in women who are experiencing or have experienced menopause. However, women who need a medication only to treat vaginal dryness or only to prevent osteoporosis should consider a different treatment. Some brands of estrogen are also to relieve symptoms of low estrogen in young women who do not produce enough estrogen naturally. Some brands of estrogen are also used to relieve the symptoms of certain types of breast and prostate (a male reproductive gland) cancer. Estrogen is in a class of medications called hormones. It works by replacing estrogen that is normally produced by the body. How should this medicine be used? Estrogen comes as a tablet to take by mouth. It is usually taken with or without food once a day. Estrogen is sometimes taken every day and sometimes taken according to a rotating schedule that alternates a period of time when estrogen is taken every day with a period of time when estrogen is not taken. When estrogen is used to relieve the symptoms of cancer, it is usually taken three times a day. Take estrogen at around the same time(s) every day. Follow the directions on your prescription label carefully, and ask your doctor or pharmacist to explain any part you do not understand. Take estrogen exactly as directed. Do not take more or less of it or take it more often than prescribed by your doctor. Your doctor may start you on a low dose of estrogen and gradually increase your dose if your symptoms are still bothersome, or decrease your dose if your symptoms are well-controlled. Talk to your doctor about how well estrogen works for you. Ask your pharmacist or doctor for a copy of the manufacturer's information for the patient. Other uses for this medicine This medication may be prescribed for other uses; ask your doctor or pharmacist for more information. What special precautions should I follow? Before taking estrogen, tell your doctor and pharmacist if you are allergic to any brand of oral estrogen, any other estrogen products, any other medications, or any of the ingredients in estrogen tablets. If you will be taking Estrace ® brand tablets, tell your doctor and pharmacist if you are allergic to aspirin or tartrazine (a food color additive). Ask your pharmacist or check the manufacturer's patient information for a list of the inactive ingredients in the brand of estrogen tablets you plan to take. tell your doctor and pharmacist what prescription and nonprescription medications, vitamins, and nutritional supplements you are taking or plan to take. Be sure to mention any of the following: amiodarone (Cordarone, Pacerone); certain antifungals such as itraconazole (Sporanox) and ketoconazole (Nizoral); aprepitant (Emend); carbamazepine (Carbatrol, Epitol, Tegretol); cimetidine (Tagamet); clarithromycin (Biaxin); cyclosporine (Neoral, Sandimmune); dexamethasone (Decadron, Dexpak); diltiazem (Cardizem, Dilacor, Tiazac, others); erythromycin (E.E.S, Erythrocin);fluoxetine (Prozac, Sarafem); fluvoxamine (Luvox); griseofulvin (Fulvicin, Grifulvin, Gris-PEG); lovastatin (Altocor, Mevacor); medications for human immunodeficiency virus (HIV) or acquired immunodeficiency syndrome (AIDS) such as atazanavir (Reyataz), delavirdine (Rescriptor), efavirenz (Sustiva), indinavir (Crixivan), lopinavir (in Kaletra), nelfinavir (Viracept), nevirapine (Viramune), ritonavir (Norvir, in Kaletra), and saquinavir (Fortovase, Invirase); medications for thyroid disease; nefazodone; phenobarbital; phenytoin (Dilantin, Phenytek); rifabutin (Mycobutin); rifampin (Rifadin, Rimactane, in Rifamate); sertraline (Zoloft); troleandomycin (TAO); verapamil (Calan, Covera, Isoptin, Verelan); and zafirlukast (Accolate). Your doctor may need to change the doses of your medications or monitor you carefully for side effects. tell your doctor what herbal products you are taking, especially St. John's wort. tell your doctor if you have or have ever had yellowing of the skin or eyes during pregnancy or during your treatment with an estrogen product, endometriosis (a condition in which the type of tissue that lines the uterus [womb] grows in other areas of the body), uterine fibroids (growths in the uterus that are not cancer), asthma, migraine headaches, seizures, porphyria (condition in which abnormal substances build up in the blood and cause problems with the skin or nervous system), very high or very low levels of calcium in your blood, or thyroid, liver, kidney, gallbladder, or pancreatic disease. tell your doctor if you are pregnant, plan to become pregnant, or are breast-feeding. If you become pregnant while taking estrogen, call your doctor immediately. talk to your doctor about the risks and benefits of taking estrogen if you are 65 years of age or older. Older women should not usually take oral estrogen unless they are also taking other hormones. Oral estrogen taken without other hormones is not as safe or effective as other medications that can be used to treat the same condition. if you are taking estrogen to prevent osteoporosis, talk to your doctor about other ways to prevent the disease such as exercising and taking vitamin D and/or calcium supplements. What special dietary instructions should I follow? Talk to your doctor about eating grapefruit and drinking grapefruit juice while taking this medicine. Talk to your doctor about ways to increase the amount of calcium and vitamin D in your diet, especially if you are taking estrogen to prevent osteoporosis. What should I do if I forget a dose? Take the missed dose as soon as you remember it. However, if it is almost time for the next dose, skip the missed dose and continue your regular dosing schedule. Do not take a double dose to make up for a missed one. What side effects can this medication cause? Estrogen may cause side effects. Tell your doctor if any of these symptoms are severe or do not go away: breast pain or tenderness upset stomach vomiting heartburn constipation diarrhea gas weight gain or loss leg cramps nervousness depression dizziness burning or tingling in the arms or legs tight muscles hair loss unwanted hair growth spotty darkening of the skin on the face difficulty wearing contact lenses swelling, redness, burning, itching, or irritation of the vagina vaginal discharge change in sexual desire cold symptoms Some side effects can be serious. If you experience any of these symptoms or those listed in the IMPORTANT WARNING section, call your doctor immediately: bulging eyes sore throat, fever, chills, cough, and other signs of infection pain, swelling, or tenderness in the stomach loss of appetite weakness yellowing of the skin or eyes joint pain movements that are difficult to control rash or blisters hives itching swelling of the eyes, face, tongue, throat, hands, arms, feet, ankles, or lower legs hoarseness difficulty breathing or swallowing Estrogen may increase your risk of developing cancer of the ovaries or gallbladder disease that may need to be treated with surgery. Talk to your doctor about the risks of taking estrogen. Estrogen may cause growth to slow or stop early in children who take large doses for a long time. Estrogen may also affect the timing and speed of sexual development in children. Your child's doctor will monitor him or her carefully during his or her treatment with estrogen. Talk to your child's doctor about the risks of giving this medication to your child. Estrogen may cause other side effects. Call your doctor if you have any unusual problems while taking this medication. If you experience a serious side effect, you or your doctor may send a report to the Food and Drug Administration's (FDA) MedWatch Adverse Event Reporting program online ( http://www.fda.gov/Safety/MedWatch ) or by phone (1-800-332-1088). What should I know about storage and disposal of this medication? Keep this medication in the container it came in, tightly closed, and out of reach of children. Store it at room temperature and away from excess heat and moisture (not in the bathroom). It is important to keep all medication out of sight and reach of children as many containers (such as weekly pill minders and those for eye drops, creams, patches, and inhalers) are not child-resistant and young children can open them easily. To protect young children from poisoning, always lock safety caps and immediately place the medication in a safe location – one that is up and away and out of their sight and reach. http://www.upandaway.org Unneeded medications should be disposed of in special ways to ensure that pets, children, and other people cannot consume them. However, you should not flush this medication down the toilet. Instead, the best way to dispose of your medication is through a medicine take-back program. Talk to your pharmacist or contact your local garbage/recycling department to learn about take-back programs in your community. See the FDA's Safe Disposal of Medicines website ( http://goo.gl/c4Rm4p ) for more information if you do not have access to a take-back program. In case of emergency/overdose In case of overdose, call the poison control helpline at 1-800-222-1222. Information is also available online at https://www.poisonhelp.org/help . If the victim has collapsed, had a seizure, has trouble breathing, or can't be awakened, immediately call emergency services at 911. Symptoms of overdose may include: upset stomach vomiting vaginal bleeding What other information should I know? Keep all appointments with your doctor. Before having any laboratory test, tell your doctor and the laboratory personnel that you are taking estrogen. Do not let anyone else take your medication. Ask your pharmacist any questions you have about refilling your prescription. It is important for you to keep a written list of all of the prescription and nonprescription (over-the-counter) medicines you are taking, as well as any products such as vitamins, minerals, or other dietary supplements. You should bring this list with you each time you visit a doctor or if you are admitted to a hospital. It is also important information to carry with you in case of emergencies. Brand names Amnestrogen ® (esterified estrogens) ¶ Cenestin ® (conjugated synthetic A estrogens) Enjuvia ® (conjugated synthetic B estrogens) Estrace ® Tablets (estradiol) Estratab ® (esterified estrogens) Evex ® (esterified estrogens) ¶ Femogen ® (esterified estrogens) ¶ Menest ® (esterified estrogens) Ogen ® Tablets (estropipate) Ortho-est ® (estropipate) Premarin ® Tablets (conjugated estrogens)

[ Amoxicillin and Clavulanic Acid pronounced as (a mox i sil' in) (klav' yoo lan ic) To use the sharing features on this page, please enable JavaScript. Why is this medication prescribed? How should this medicine be used? Other uses for this medicine What special precautions should I follow? What special dietary instructions should I follow? What should I do if I forget a dose? What side effects can this medication cause? What should I know about storage and disposal of this medication? In case of emergency/overdose What other information should I know? Why is this medication prescribed? The combination of amoxicillin and clavulanic acid is used to treat certain infections caused by bacteria, including infections of the ears, lungs, sinus, skin, and urinary tract. Amoxicillin is in a class of medications called penicillin-like antibiotics. It works by stopping the growth of bacteria. Clavulanic acid is in a class of medications called beta-lactamase inhibitors. It works by preventing bacteria from destroying amoxicillin. Antibiotics will not work for colds, flu, or other viral infections. Using antibiotics when they are not needed increases your risk of getting an infection later that resists antibiotic treatment. How should this medicine be used? The combination of amoxicillin and clavulanic acid comes as a tablet, a chewable tablet, an extended-release (long-acting) tablet, and a suspension (liquid) to take by mouth. The tablets, chewable tablets, and suspension are usually taken at the start of a meal every 8 hours (three times a day) or every 12 hours (twice a day). The extended-release tablets are usually taken with a meal or snack every 12 hours (twice a day). To help you remember to take amoxicillin and clavulanate, take it around the same times every day. Follow the directions on your prescription label carefully, and ask your doctor or pharmacist to explain any part you do not understand. Take amoxicillin and clavulanic acid exactly as directed. Do not take more or less of it or take it more often than prescribed by your doctor. Swallow the extended-release tablets whole; do not chew or crush them. Shake the liquid well before each use to mix the medication evenly. The chewable tablets should be chewed thoroughly before they are swallowed. The other tablets should be taken with a full glass of water. The 250 mg and 500 mg tablets of amoxicillin and clavulanic acid contain the same amount of clavulanic acid. Do not substitute two 250 mg tablets for one 500 mg tablet. The 250 mg regular tablet and the 250 mg chewable tablet contain different amounts of clavulanic acid. They also should not be substituted. Take amoxicillin and clavulanic acid until you finish the prescription, even if you feel better. If you stop taking amoxicillin and clavulanic too soon, or skip doses, your infection may not be completely treated and the bacteria may become resistant to antibiotics. Other uses for this medicine Amoxicillin and clavulanic acid also is used sometimes to treat certain sexually transmitted diseases (STD). Talk to your doctor about the possible risks of using this medication for your condition. This medication may be prescribed for other uses; ask your doctor or pharmacist for more information. What special precautions should I follow? Before taking amoxicillin and clavulanic acid, tell your doctor and pharmacist if you are allergic to amoxicillin (Amoxil, Trimox, Wymox), clavulanic acid, penicillin, cephalosporins, any other medications, or any of the ingredients in amoxicillin and clavulanic acid preparations. Ask your pharmacist for a list of the ingredients. tell your doctor and pharmacist what prescription and nonprescription medications, vitamins, nutritional supplements, and herbal products you are taking. Be sure to mention either of the following: allopurinol (Aloprim, Lopurin, Zyloprim) probenecid (Probalan), and warfarin (Coumadin, Jantoven). Your doctor may need to change the doses of your medications or monitor you carefully for side effects. tell your doctor if you have or have ever had kidney or liver disease, allergies, asthma, hay fever, hives, or mononucleosis. you should know that amoxicillin and clavulanic acid may decrease the effectiveness of oral contraceptives (birth control pills). Plan to use another form of birth control while taking amoxicillin and clavulanic acid. tell your doctor if you are pregnant, plan to become pregnant, or are breastfeeding. If you become pregnant while taking amoxicillin and clavulanic acid, call your doctor. What special dietary instructions should I follow? Unless your doctor tells you otherwise, continue your normal diet. What should I do if I forget a dose? Take the missed dose as soon as you remember it. However, if it is almost time for the next dose, skip the missed dose and continue your regular dosing schedule. Do not take a double dose to make up for a missed one. What side effects can this medication cause? Amoxicillin and clavulanic acid may cause side effects. Tell your doctor if any of these symptoms are severe or do not go away: diarrhea upset stomach vomiting mild skin rash Some side effects can be serious. If you experience any of the following symptoms, call your doctor immediately: severe skin rash itching hives difficulty breathing or swallowing wheezing vaginal itching and discharge yellowing of the skin or eyes Amoxicillin and clavulanic acid may cause other side effects. Call your doctor if you have any unusual problems while taking this medication. If you experience a serious side effect, you or your doctor may send a report to the Food and Drug Administration's (FDA) MedWatch Adverse Event Reporting program online ( http://www.fda.gov/Safety/MedWatch ) or by phone (1-800-332-1088). What should I know about storage and disposal of this medication? Keep this medication in the container it came in, tightly closed, and out of reach of children. Store the tablets at room temperature and away from excess heat and moisture (not in the bathroom). Keep liquid medication in the refrigerator, tightly closed, and dispose of any unused medication after 10 days. Do not freeze. It is important to keep all medication out of sight and reach of children as many containers (such as weekly pill minders and those for eye drops, creams, patches, and inhalers) are not child-resistant and young children can open them easily. To protect young children from poisoning, always lock safety caps and immediately place the medication in a safe location – one that is up and away and out of their sight and reach. http://www.upandaway.org Unneeded medications should be disposed of in special ways to ensure that pets, children, and other people cannot consume them. However, you should not flush this medication down the toilet. Instead, the best way to dispose of your medication is through a medicine take-back program. Talk to your pharmacist or contact your local garbage/recycling department to learn about take-back programs in your community. See the FDA's Safe Disposal of Medicines website ( http://goo.gl/c4Rm4p ) for more information if you do not have access to a take-back program. In case of emergency/overdose In case of overdose, call the poison control helpline at 1-800-222-1222. Information is also available online at https://www.poisonhelp.org/help . If the victim has collapsed, had a seizure, has trouble breathing, or can't be awakened, immediately call emergency services at 911. Symptoms of overdose may include the following: stomach pain vomiting diarrhea rash hyperactivity drowsiness What other information should I know? Keep all appointments with your doctor and the laboratory. Your doctor may order certain lab tests to check your body's response to amoxicillin and clavulanic acid. If you are diabetic, use Clinistix or TesTape (not Clinitest) to test your urine for sugar while taking this medication. Do not let anyone else take your medication. Your prescription is probably not refillable. If you still have symptoms of infection after you finish the amoxicillin and clavulanic acid, call your doctor. It is important for you to keep a written list of all of the prescription and nonprescription (over-the-counter) medicines you are taking, as well as any products such as vitamins, minerals, or other dietary supplements. You should bring this list with you each time you visit a doctor or if you are admitted to a hospital. It is also important information to carry with you in case of emergencies.

[ Meprobamate pronounced as (me proe ba' mate)  Meprobamate is used to treat anxiety disorders or for short-term relief of the symptoms of anxiety in adults and children 6 years of age and older. Meprobamate is in a class of medications called tranquilizers. It works by slowing activity in the brain to allow for relaxation. How should this medicine be used? Meprobamate comes as a tablet to take by mouth. It usually is taken 2 to 3 times a day in children and 3 to 4 times a day in adults. Follow the directions on your prescription label carefully, and ask your doctor or pharmacist to explain any part you do not understand. Take meprobamate exactly as directed. Meprobamate can be habit-forming, do not take a larger dose, take it more often, or for a longer period than your doctor tells you to. Do not stop taking this medication without talking to your doctor, especially if you have been taking it for a long time. Your doctor probably will decrease your dose gradually. Other uses for this medicine This medication may be prescribed for other uses; ask your doctor or pharmacist for more information. What special precautions should I follow? Before taking meprobamate, tell your doctor and pharmacist if you are allergic to meprobamate, carisoprodol, any other medications, or any of the ingredients in meprobamate tablets. Ask your doctor or pharmacist for a list of the ingredients. tell your doctor and pharmacist what prescription and nonprescription medications, vitamins, nutritional supplements, and herbal products you are taking or plan to take. Be sure to mention any of the following: antidepressants, medications for anxiety, medications for mental illness, seizures, sedatives, sleeping pills, tranquilizers. Your doctor may need to change the doses of your medications or monitor you carefully for side effects. tell your doctor if you have or have ever had porphyria (condition in which certain natural substances build up in the body and may cause stomach pain, changes in thinking and behavior, and other symptoms). Your doctor will probably tell you not to take meprobamate. tell your doctor if you have or have ever had kidney or liver disease, a history of alcohol or drug abuse, or epilepsy. Also tell your doctor if you have or have ever had thoughts of harming or killing yourself or trying to do so. tell your doctor if you are pregnant, plan to become pregnant, or are breastfeeding. If you become pregnant while taking meprobamate, call your doctor immediately. Meprobamate may harm the fetus. talk to your doctor about the risks and benefits of taking meprobamate if you are 65 years of age or older. Older adults should not usually take meprobamate because it is not as safe as other medications that can be used to treat the same condition. if you are having surgery, including dental surgery, tell the doctor or dentist that you are taking meprobamate. you should know that this medication may make you drowsy. Do not drive a car or operate machinery until you know how this medication affects you. talk to your doctor about the safe use of alcohol during your treatment with meprobamate. Alcohol can make the side effects of meprobamate worse. What special dietary instructions should I follow? Unless your doctor tells you otherwise, continue your normal diet. What should I do if I forget a dose? Do not take a missed dose when you remember it. Skip it completely; then take the next dose at the regularly scheduled time. What side effects can this medication cause? Meprobamate may cause side effects. Tell your doctor if any of these symptoms are severe or do not go away: drowsiness dizziness nausea vomiting diarrhea headache vision changes excitement weakness Some side effects can be serious. If you experience any of the following symptoms, call your doctor immediately: rash itching hives or skin blistering difficulty breathing or swallowing fever, sore throat, or chills swelling of the eyes, face, lips, tongue, or throat unusual bruising or bleeding bloody nose tiny purple-colored skin spots loss of muscle coordination pounding or irregular heartbeat Meprobamate may cause other side effects. Call your doctor if you have any unusual problems while you are taking this medication. If you experience a serious side effect, you or your doctor may send a report to the Food and Drug Administration's (FDA) MedWatch Adverse Event Reporting program online ( http://www.fda.gov/Safety/MedWatch ) or by phone (1-800-332-1088). What should I know about storage and disposal of this medication? Keep this medication in the container it came in, tightly closed, and out of reach of children. Store it at room temperature, away from excess heat and moisture (not in the bathroom). It is important to keep all medication out of sight and reach of children as many containers (such as weekly pill minders and those for eye drops, creams, patches, and inhalers) are not child-resistant and young children can open them easily. To protect young children from poisoning, always lock safety caps and immediately place the medication in a safe location – one that is up and away and out of their sight and reach. http://www.upandaway.org Unneeded medications should be disposed of in special ways to ensure that pets, children, and other people cannot consume them. However, you should not flush this medication down the toilet. Instead, the best way to dispose of your medication is through a medicine take-back program. Talk to your pharmacist or contact your local garbage/recycling department to learn about take-back programs in your community. See the FDA's Safe Disposal of Medicines website ( http://goo.gl/c4Rm4p ) for more information if you do not have access to a take-back program. In case of emergency/overdose In case of overdose, call the poison control helpline at 1-800-222-1222. Information is also available online at https://www.poisonhelp.org/help . If the victim has collapsed, had a seizure, has trouble breathing, or can't be awakened, immediately call emergency services at 911. Symptoms of overdose may include the following: loss of muscle coordination slurred speech drowsiness What other information should I know? Keep all appointments with your doctor and the laboratory. Your doctor will order certain lab tests to check your response to meprobamate. Do not let anyone else take your medication. Meprobamate is a controlled substance. Prescriptions may be refilled only a limited number of times; ask your pharmacist if you have any questions. It is important for you to keep a written list of all of the prescription and nonprescription (over-the-counter) medicines you are taking, as well as any products such as vitamins, minerals, or other dietary supplements. You should bring this list with you each time you visit a doctor or if you are admitted to a hospital. It is also important information to carry with you in case of emergencies. Brand names Amosene ® ¶ Bamate ® ¶ Equanil ® ¶ Mepriam ® ¶ Meprospan ® ¶ Miltown ® ¶ Neuramate ® ¶ Tranmep ® ¶





[ Amoxicillin and Clavulanic Acid pronounced as (a mox i sil' in) (klav' yoo lan ic) To use the sharing features on this page, please enable JavaScript. Why is this medication prescribed? How should this medicine be used? Other uses for this medicine What special precautions should I follow? What special dietary instructions should I follow? What should I do if I forget a dose? What side effects can this medication cause? What should I know about storage and disposal of this medication? In case of emergency/overdose What other information should I know? Why is this medication prescribed? The combination of amoxicillin and clavulanic acid is used to treat certain infections caused by bacteria, including infections of the ears, lungs, sinus, skin, and urinary tract. Amoxicillin is in a class of medications called penicillin-like antibiotics. It works by stopping the growth of bacteria. Clavulanic acid is in a class of medications called beta-lactamase inhibitors. It works by preventing bacteria from destroying amoxicillin. Antibiotics will not work for colds, flu, or other viral infections. Using antibiotics when they are not needed increases your risk of getting an infection later that resists antibiotic treatment. How should this medicine be used? The combination of amoxicillin and clavulanic acid comes as a tablet, a chewable tablet, an extended-release (long-acting) tablet, and a suspension (liquid) to take by mouth. The tablets, chewable tablets, and suspension are usually taken at the start of a meal every 8 hours (three times a day) or every 12 hours (twice a day). The extended-release tablets are usually taken with a meal or snack every 12 hours (twice a day). To help you remember to take amoxicillin and clavulanate, take it around the same times every day. Follow the directions on your prescription label carefully, and ask your doctor or pharmacist to explain any part you do not understand. Take amoxicillin and clavulanic acid exactly as directed. Do not take more or less of it or take it more often than prescribed by your doctor. Swallow the extended-release tablets whole; do not chew or crush them. Shake the liquid well before each use to mix the medication evenly. The chewable tablets should be chewed thoroughly before they are swallowed. The other tablets should be taken with a full glass of water. The 250 mg and 500 mg tablets of amoxicillin and clavulanic acid contain the same amount of clavulanic acid. Do not substitute two 250 mg tablets for one 500 mg tablet. The 250 mg regular tablet and the 250 mg chewable tablet contain different amounts of clavulanic acid. They also should not be substituted. Take amoxicillin and clavulanic acid until you finish the prescription, even if you feel better. If you stop taking amoxicillin and clavulanic too soon, or skip doses, your infection may not be completely treated and the bacteria may become resistant to antibiotics. Other uses for this medicine Amoxicillin and clavulanic acid also is used sometimes to treat certain sexually transmitted diseases (STD). Talk to your doctor about the possible risks of using this medication for your condition. This medication may be prescribed for other uses; ask your doctor or pharmacist for more information. What special precautions should I follow? Before taking amoxicillin and clavulanic acid, tell your doctor and pharmacist if you are allergic to amoxicillin (Amoxil, Trimox, Wymox), clavulanic acid, penicillin, cephalosporins, any other medications, or any of the ingredients in amoxicillin and clavulanic acid preparations. Ask your pharmacist for a list of the ingredients. tell your doctor and pharmacist what prescription and nonprescription medications, vitamins, nutritional supplements, and herbal products you are taking. Be sure to mention either of the following: allopurinol (Aloprim, Lopurin, Zyloprim) probenecid (Probalan), and warfarin (Coumadin, Jantoven). Your doctor may need to change the doses of your medications or monitor you carefully for side effects. tell your doctor if you have or have ever had kidney or liver disease, allergies, asthma, hay fever, hives, or mononucleosis. you should know that amoxicillin and clavulanic acid may decrease the effectiveness of oral contraceptives (birth control pills). Plan to use another form of birth control while taking amoxicillin and clavulanic acid. tell your doctor if you are pregnant, plan to become pregnant, or are breastfeeding. If you become pregnant while taking amoxicillin and clavulanic acid, call your doctor. What special dietary instructions should I follow? Unless your doctor tells you otherwise, continue your normal diet. What should I do if I forget a dose? Take the missed dose as soon as you remember it. However, if it is almost time for the next dose, skip the missed dose and continue your regular dosing schedule. Do not take a double dose to make up for a missed one. What side effects can this medication cause? Amoxicillin and clavulanic acid may cause side effects. Tell your doctor if any of these symptoms are severe or do not go away: diarrhea upset stomach vomiting mild skin rash Some side effects can be serious. If you experience any of the following symptoms, call your doctor immediately: severe skin rash itching hives difficulty breathing or swallowing wheezing vaginal itching and discharge yellowing of the skin or eyes Amoxicillin and clavulanic acid may cause other side effects. Call your doctor if you have any unusual problems while taking this medication. If you experience a serious side effect, you or your doctor may send a report to the Food and Drug Administration's (FDA) MedWatch Adverse Event Reporting program online ( http://www.fda.gov/Safety/MedWatch ) or by phone (1-800-332-1088). What should I know about storage and disposal of this medication? Keep this medication in the container it came in, tightly closed, and out of reach of children. Store the tablets at room temperature and away from excess heat and moisture (not in the bathroom). Keep liquid medication in the refrigerator, tightly closed, and dispose of any unused medication after 10 days. Do not freeze. It is important to keep all medication out of sight and reach of children as many containers (such as weekly pill minders and those for eye drops, creams, patches, and inhalers) are not child-resistant and young children can open them easily. To protect young children from poisoning, always lock safety caps and immediately place the medication in a safe location – one that is up and away and out of their sight and reach. http://www.upandaway.org Unneeded medications should be disposed of in special ways to ensure that pets, children, and other people cannot consume them. However, you should not flush this medication down the toilet. Instead, the best way to dispose of your medication is through a medicine take-back program. Talk to your pharmacist or contact your local garbage/recycling department to learn about take-back programs in your community. See the FDA's Safe Disposal of Medicines website ( http://goo.gl/c4Rm4p ) for more information if you do not have access to a take-back program. In case of emergency/overdose In case of overdose, call the poison control helpline at 1-800-222-1222. Information is also available online at https://www.poisonhelp.org/help . If the victim has collapsed, had a seizure, has trouble breathing, or can't be awakened, immediately call emergency services at 911. Symptoms of overdose may include the following: stomach pain vomiting diarrhea rash hyperactivity drowsiness What other information should I know? Keep all appointments with your doctor and the laboratory. Your doctor may order certain lab tests to check your body's response to amoxicillin and clavulanic acid. If you are diabetic, use Clinistix or TesTape (not Clinitest) to test your urine for sugar while taking this medication. Do not let anyone else take your medication. Your prescription is probably not refillable. If you still have symptoms of infection after you finish the amoxicillin and clavulanic acid, call your doctor. It is important for you to keep a written list of all of the prescription and nonprescription (over-the-counter) medicines you are taking, as well as any products such as vitamins, minerals, or other dietary supplements. You should bring this list with you each time you visit a doctor or if you are admitted to a hospital. It is also important information to carry with you in case of emergencies.



















[ Ampicillin and Sulbactam Injection pronounced as (am pi sill' in) (sul bak' tam) To use the sharing features on this page, please enable JavaScript. Why is this medication prescribed? How should this medicine be used? Other uses for this medicine What special precautions should I follow? What special dietary instructions should I follow? What side effects can this medication cause? In case of emergency/overdose What other information should I know? Why is this medication prescribed? The combination of ampicillin and sulbactam injection is used to treat certain infections caused by bacteria, including infections of the skin, female reproductive organs, and abdomen (stomach area). Ampicillin is in a class of medications called penicillin-like antibiotics. It works by stopping the growth of bacteria. Sulbactam is in a class of medications called beta-lactamase inhibitors. It works by preventing bacteria from destroying ampicillin. Antibiotics such as ampicillin and sulbactam injection will not work for colds, flu, or other viral infections. Using antibiotics when they are not needed increases your risk of getting an infection later that resists antibiotic treatment. How should this medicine be used? Ampicillin and sulbactam injection comes as a powder to be mixed with liquid and injected intravenously (into a vein) or intramuscularly (into a muscle) every 6 hours (4 times daily). The length of treatment depends on the type of infection you have. Your doctor will tell you how long to use ampicillin and sulbactam injection. After your condition improves, your doctor may switch you to another antibiotic that you can take by mouth to complete your treatment. You may receive ampicillin and sulbactam injection in a hospital, or you may use the medication at home. If you will be using ampicillin and sulbactam injection at home, your health care provider will show you how to use the medication. Be sure that you understand these directions, and ask your healthcare provider if you have any questions. You should begin to feel better during the first few days of treatment with ampicillin and sulbactam injection. If your symptoms do not improve or if they get worse, call your doctor. If you still have symptoms of infection after you finish ampicillin and sulbactam injection, tell your doctor. Use ampicillin and sulbactam injection until you finish the prescription, even if you feel better. If you stop using ampicillin and sulbactam injection too soon or if you skip doses, your infection may not be completely treated and the bacteria may become resistant to antibiotics. Other uses for this medicine This medication may be prescribed for other uses; ask your doctor or pharmacist for more information. What special precautions should I follow? Before receiving ampicillin and sulbactam injection, tell your doctor and pharmacist if you are allergic to ampicillin; sulbactam; penicillin antibiotics; cephalosporin antibiotics such as cefaclor, cefadroxil, cefazolin (Ancef, Kefzol), cefdinir, cefditoren, cefepime (Maxipime), cefixime (Suprax), cefotaxime (Claforan), cefotetan, cefoxitin (Mefoxin), cefpodoxime, cefprozil, ceftaroline (Teflaro), ceftazidime (Fortaz, Tazicef, in Avycaz), ceftibuten, ceftriaxone,cefuroxime (Ceftin, Zinacef), and cephalexin (Keflex); any other medications; or any of the ingredients in ampicillin and sulbactam injection. Ask your pharmacist for a list of the ingredients. tell your doctor and pharmacist what other prescription and nonprescription medications, vitamins, nutritional supplements, and herbal products you are taking or plan to take. Be sure to mention any of the following: allopurinol (Aloprim, Lopurin, Zyloprim), or probenecid (Probalan, in Col-Probenecid). Your doctor may need to change the doses of your medications or monitor you carefully for side effects. tell your doctor if you have or have ever had liver disease, especially if it occurred after using a penicillin antibiotic. Your doctor may tell you not to use ampicillin and sulbactam injection. tell your doctor if you have mononucleosis (a virus also called 'mono'), and if you have or have ever had allergies, asthma, hives, hay fever, or kidney disease. tell your doctor if you are pregnant, plan to become pregnant, or are breastfeeding. If you become pregnant while using ampicillin and sulbactam injection, call your doctor. What special dietary instructions should I follow? Unless your doctor tells you otherwise, continue your normal diet. What side effects can this medication cause? Ampicillin and sulbactam injection may cause side effects. Tell your doctor if any of these symptoms are severe or do not go away: diarrhea nausea vomiting redness, irritation, or pain at the injection site Some side effects can be serious. If you experience any of these symptoms, stop using ampicillin and sulbactam injection and call your doctor immediately or get emergency medical treatment: rash peeling or blistering of the skin itching hives difficulty breathing or swallowing wheezing swelling of the eyes, face, mouth, lips, tongue, throat, hands, feet, ankles or lower legs hoarseness severe diarrhea (watery or bloody stools) that may occur with or without fever and stomach cramps (may occur up to 2 months or more after your treatment) yellowing of the skin or eyes pain in the upper right part of your stomach dark urine a return of fever, cough, sore throat, chills, and other signs of infection Ampicillin and sulbactam injection may cause other side effects. Call your doctor if you have any unusual problems while using this medication. If you experience a serious side effect, you or your doctor may send a report to the Food and Drug Administration's (FDA) MedWatch Adverse Event Reporting program online ( http://www.fda.gov/Safety/MedWatch ) or by phone (1-800-332-1088). In case of emergency/overdose In case of overdose, call the poison control helpline at 1-800-222-1222. Information is also available online at https://www.poisonhelp.org/help . If the victim has collapsed, had a seizure, has trouble breathing, or can't be awakened, immediately call emergency services at 911. Symptoms of overdose may include the following: seizures What other information should I know? Keep all appointments with your doctor and the laboratory. Your doctor may order certain lab tests to check your body's response to ampicillin and sulbactam injection. Before having any laboratory test, tell your doctor and the laboratory personnel that you are using ampicillin and sulbactam injection. If you are diabetic, use Clinistix or TesTape (not Clinitest) to test your urine for sugar while using this medication. Ask your pharmacist any questions you have about ampicillin and sulbactam injection. It is important for you to keep a written list of all of the prescription and nonprescription (over-the-counter) medicines you are taking, as well as any products such as vitamins, minerals, or other dietary supplements. You should bring this list with you each time you visit a doctor or if you are admitted to a hospital. It is also important information to carry with you in case of emergencies.









[ Amlodipine pronounced as (am loe' di peen)  Amlodipine is used alone or in combination with other medications to treat high blood pressure in adults and children 6 years and older. It is also used to treat certain types of angina (chest pain) and coronary artery disease (narrowing of the blood vessels that supply blood to the heart). Amlodipine is in a class of medications called calcium channel blockers. It lowers blood pressure by relaxing the blood vessels so the heart does not have to pump as hard. It controls chest pain by increasing the supply of blood to the heart. If taken regularly, amlodipine controls chest pain, but it does not stop chest pain once it starts. Your doctor may prescribe a different medication to take when you have chest pain. High blood pressure is a common condition and when not treated, can cause damage to the brain, heart, blood vessels, kidneys and other parts of the body. Damage to these organs may cause heart disease, a heart attack, heart failure, stroke, kidney failure, loss of vision, and other problems. In addition to taking medication, making lifestyle changes will also help to control your blood pressure. These changes include eating a diet that is low in fat and salt, maintaining a healthy weight, exercising at least 30 minutes most days, not smoking, and using alcohol in moderation. How should this medicine be used? Amlodipine comes as a tablet and an suspension (liquid) to take by mouth. It is usually taken once a day. To help you remember to take amlodipine, take it around the same time every day. Follow the directions on your prescription label carefully, and ask your doctor or pharmacist to explain any part you do not understand. Take amlodipine exactly as directed. Do not take more or less of it or take it more often than prescribed by your doctor. Shake the suspension well before each use to mix the medication evenly. Your doctor will probably start you on a low dose of amlodipine and gradually increase your dose. Amlodipine helps to control high blood pressure, angina, and coronary artery disease, but does not cure these conditions. Continue to take amlodipine even if you feel well. Do not stop taking amlodipine without talking to your doctor. Other uses for this medicine This medication may be prescribed for other uses; ask your doctor or pharmacist for more information. What special precautions should I follow? Before taking amlodipine, tell your doctor and pharmacist if you are allergic to amlodipine, any other medications, or any ingredients in amlodipine tablets or suspension. Ask your pharmacist for a list of the ingredients. tell your doctor and pharmacist what prescription and nonprescription medications, vitamins, nutritional supplements, and herbal products you are taking or plan to take. Be sure to mention any of the following: certain medications for seizures such as carbamazepine (Carbatrol, Equetro, Tegretol), phenytoin (Dilantin, Phenytek), and phenobarbital; clarithromycin (Biaxin, in Prevpac); cyclosporine (Gengraf, Neoral, Sandimmune); efavirenz (Sustiva); indinavir (Crixivan); itraconazole (Onmel, Sporanox); ketoconazole (Nizoral); lovastatin (Altoprev, in Advicor); nefazodone; nelfinavir (Viracept); nevirapine (Viramune); rifabutin (Mycobutin); rifampin (Rifadin, Rimactane, in Rifamate), ritonavir (Norvir, in Kaletra), simvastatin (Zocor, in Simcor, in Vytorin), and tacrolimus (Astragraf SL, Prograf). Your doctor may need to change the doses of your medications or monitor you carefully for side effects. tell your doctor if you have or have ever had heart failure or heart or liver disease. tell your doctor if you are pregnant, plan to become pregnant, or are breast-feeding. If you become pregnant while taking amlodipine, call your doctor. What special dietary instructions should I follow? If your doctor prescribes a low-salt or low-sodium diet, follow these directions carefully. What should I do if I forget a dose? Take the missed dose as soon as you remember it. However, if it is almost time for the next dose, skip the missed dose and continue your regular dosing schedule. Do not take a double dose to make up for a missed one. What side effects can this medication cause? Amlodipine may cause side effects. Tell your doctor if any of these symptoms are severe or do not go away: swelling of the hands, feet, ankles, or lower legs headache upset stomach nausea stomach pain dizziness or lightheadedness drowsiness excessive tiredness flushing Some side effects can be serious. If you experience any of these symptoms, call your doctor immediately or get emergency medical treatment: more frequent or more severe chest pain rapid, pounding, or irregular heartbeat fainting If you experience a serious side effect, you or your doctor may send a report to the Food and Drug Administration's (FDA) MedWatch Adverse Event Reporting program online ( http://www.fda.gov/Safety/MedWatch ) or by phone (1-800-332-1088). What should I know about storage and disposal of this medication? Keep this medication in the container it came in, tightly closed, and out of reach of children. Store the tablets at room temperature and away from excess heat and moisture (not in the bathroom). Store the suspension in the refrigerator and avoid freezing; protect it from light. It is important to keep all medication out of sight and reach of children as many containers (such as weekly pill minders and those for eye drops, creams, patches, and inhalers) are not child-resistant and young children can open them easily. To protect young children from poisoning, always lock safety caps and immediately place the medication in a safe location – one that is up and away and out of their sight and reach. http://www.upandaway.org Unneeded medications should be disposed of in special ways to ensure that pets, children, and other people cannot consume them. However, you should not flush this medication down the toilet. Instead, the best way to dispose of your medication is through a medicine take-back program. Talk to your pharmacist or contact your local garbage/recycling department to learn about take-back programs in your community. See the FDA's Safe Disposal of Medicines website ( http://goo.gl/c4Rm4p ) for more information if you do not have access to a take-back program. In case of emergency/overdose In case of overdose, call the poison control helpline at 1-800-222-1222. Information is also available online at https://www.poisonhelp.org/help . If the victim has collapsed, had a seizure, has trouble breathing, or can't be awakened, immediately call emergency services at 911. Symptoms of overdose may include: dizziness fainting rapid heartbeat What other information should I know? Keep all appointments with your doctor. Your blood pressure should be checked regularly to determine your response to amlodipine. Do not let anyone else take your medication. Ask your pharmacist any questions you have about refilling your prescription. It is important for you to keep a written list of all of the prescription and nonprescription (over-the-counter) medicines you are taking, as well as any products such as vitamins, minerals, or other dietary supplements. You should bring this list with you each time you visit a doctor or if you are admitted to a hospital. It is also important information to carry with you in case of emergencies. Brand names Amvaz ® ¶ Katerzia ® Norvasc ®





[ Aspirin pronounced as (as' pir in) To use the sharing features on this page, please enable JavaScript. Why is this medication prescribed? How should this medicine be used? Other uses for this medicine What special precautions should I follow? What special dietary instructions should I follow? What should I do if I forget a dose? What side effects can this medication cause? What should I know about storage and disposal of this medication? In case of emergency/overdose What other information should I know? Brand names Other names Why is this medication prescribed? Prescription aspirin is used to relieve the symptoms of rheumatoid arthritis (arthritis caused by swelling of the lining of the joints), osteoarthritis (arthritis caused by breakdown of the lining of the joints), systemic lupus erythematosus (condition in which the immune system attacks the joints and organs and causes pain and swelling) and certain other rheumatologic conditions (conditions in which the immune system attacks parts of the body). Nonprescription aspirin is used to reduce fever and to relieve mild to moderate pain from headaches, menstrual periods, arthritis, toothaches, and muscle aches. Nonprescription aspirin is also used to prevent heart attacks in people who have had a heart attack in the past or who have angina (chest pain that occurs when the heart does not get enough oxygen). Nonprescription aspirin is also used to reduce the risk of death in people who are experiencing or who have recently experienced a heart attack. Nonprescription aspirin is also used to prevent ischemic strokes (strokes that occur when a blood clot blocks the flow of blood to the brain) or mini-strokes (strokes that occur when the flow of blood to the brain is blocked for a short time) in people who have had this type of stroke or mini-stroke in the past. Aspirin will not prevent hemorrhagic strokes (strokes caused by bleeding in the brain). Aspirin is in a group of medications called salicylates. It works by stopping the production of certain natural substances that cause fever, pain, swelling, and blood clots. Aspirin is also available in combination with other medications such as antacids, pain relievers, and cough and cold medications. This monograph only includes information about the use of aspirin alone. If you are taking a combination product, read the information on the package or prescription label or ask your doctor or pharmacist for more information. How should this medicine be used? Prescription aspirin comes as an extended-release (long-acting) tablet. Nonprescription aspirin comes as a regular tablet, a delayed-release (releases the medication in the intestine to prevent damage to the stomach) tablet, a chewable tablet, powder, and a gum to take by mouth. Prescription aspirin is usually taken two or more times a day. Nonprescription aspirin is usually taken once a day to lower the risk of a heart attack or stroke. Nonprescription aspirin is usually taken every 4 to 6 hours as needed to treat fever or pain. Follow the directions on the package or prescription label carefully, and ask your doctor or pharmacist to explain any part you do not understand. Take aspirin exactly as directed. Do not take more or less of it or take it more often than directed by the package label or prescribed by your doctor. Swallow the extended-release tablets whole with a full glass of water. Do not break, crush, or chew them. Swallow the delayed-release tablets with a full glass of water. Chewable aspirin tablets may be chewed, crushed, or swallowed whole. Drink a full glass of water, immediately after taking these tablets. Ask a doctor before you give aspirin to your child or teenager. Aspirin may cause Reye's syndrome (a serious condition in which fat builds up on the brain, liver, and other body organs) in children and teenagers, especially if they have a virus such as chicken pox or the flu. If you have had oral surgery or surgery to remove your tonsils in the last 7 days, talk to your doctor about which types of aspirin are safe for you. Delayed-release tablets begin to work some time after they are taken. Do not take delayed-release tablets for fever or pain that must be relieved quickly. Stop taking aspirin and call your doctor if your fever lasts longer than 3 days, if your pain lasts longer than 10 days, or if the part of your body that was painful becomes red or swollen. You may have a condition that must be treated by a doctor. Other uses for this medicine Aspirin is also sometimes used to treat rheumatic fever (a serious condition that may develop after a strep throat infection and may cause swelling of the heart valves) and Kawasaki disease (an illness that may cause heart problems in children). Aspirin is also sometimes used to lower the risk of blood clots in patients who have artificial heart valves or certain other heart conditions and to prevent certain complications of pregnancy. What special precautions should I follow? Before taking aspirin, tell your doctor and pharmacist if you are allergic to aspirin, other medications for pain or fever, tartrazine dye, or any other medications. tell your doctor and pharmacist what prescription and nonprescription medications, vitamins, nutritional supplements, and herbal products you are taking or plan to take. Be sure to mention any of the following: acetazolamide (Diamox); angiotensin-converting enzyme (ACE) inhibitors such as benazepril (Lotensin), captopril (Capoten), enalapril (Vasotec), fosinopril (Monopril), lisinopril (Prinivil, Zestril), moexipril (Univasc), perindopril, (Aceon), quinapril (Accupril), ramipril (Altace), and trandolapril (Mavik); anticoagulants ('blood thinners') such as warfarin (Coumadin) and heparin; beta blockers such as atenolol (Tenormin), labetalol (Normodyne), metoprolol (Lopressor, Toprol XL), nadolol (Corgard), and propranolol (Inderal); diuretics ('water pills'); medications for diabetes or arthritis; medications for gout such as probenecid and sulfinpyrazone (Anturane); methotrexate (Trexall); other nonsteroidal anti-inflammatory drugs (NSAIDs) such as naproxen (Aleve, Naprosyn); phenytoin (Dilantin); and valproic acid (Depakene, Depakote). Your doctor may need to change the doses of your medications or monitor you more carefully for side effects. if you are taking aspirin on a regular basis to prevent heart attack or stroke, do not take ibuprofen (Advil, Motrin) to treat pain or fever without talking to your doctor. Your doctor will probably tell you to allow some time to pass between taking your daily dose of aspirin and taking a dose of ibuprofen. tell your doctor if you have or have ever had asthma, frequent stuffed or runny nose, or nasal polyps (growths on the linings of the nose). If you have these conditions, there is a risk that you will have an allergic reaction to aspirin. Your doctor may tell you that you should not take aspirin. tell your doctor if you often have heartburn, upset stomach, or stomach pain and if you have or have ever had ulcers, anemia, bleeding problems such as hemophilia, or kidney or liver disease. tell your doctor if you are pregnant, you plan to become pregnant, or if you are breast-feeding. Low dose aspirin 81-mg may be taken during pregnancy, but aspirin doses greater that 81 mg may harm the fetus and cause problems with delivery if it is taken around 20 weeks or later during pregnancy. Do not take aspirin doses greater that 81 mg (e.g., 325 mg) around or after 20 weeks of pregnancy, unless told to do so by your doctor. If you become pregnant while taking aspirin or aspirin containing medications, call your doctor. if you are having surgery, including dental surgery, tell the doctor or dentist that you are taking aspirin. if you drink three or more alcoholic drinks every day, ask your doctor if you should take aspirin or other medications for pain and fever. What special dietary instructions should I follow? Unless your doctor tells you otherwise, continue your normal diet. What should I do if I forget a dose? If your doctor has told you to take aspirin on a regular basis and you miss a dose, take the missed dose as soon as you remember it. However, if it is almost time for the next dose, skip the missed dose and continue your regular dosing schedule. Do not take a double dose to make up for a missed one. What side effects can this medication cause? Aspirin may cause side effects. Tell your doctor if any of these symptoms are severe or do not go away: nausea vomiting stomach pain heartburn Some side effects can be serious. If you experience any of the following symptoms, call your doctor immediately: hives rash swelling of the eyes, face, lips, tongue, or throat wheezing or difficulty breathing hoarseness fast heartbeat fast breathing cold, clammy skin ringing in the ears loss of hearing bloody vomit vomit that looks like coffee grounds bright red blood in stools black or tarry stools Aspirin may cause other side effects. Call your doctor if you experience any unusual problems while you are taking this medication. If you experience a serious side effect, you or your doctor may send a report to the Food and Drug Administration's (FDA) MedWatch Adverse Event Reporting program online ( http://www.fda.gov/Safety/MedWatch ) or by phone (1-800-332-1088). What should I know about storage and disposal of this medication? Keep this medication in the container it came in, tightly closed, and out of reach of children. Store it at room temperature and away from excess heat and moisture (not in the bathroom). Dispose of any tablets that have a strong vinegar smell. It is important to keep all medication out of sight and reach of children as many containers (such as weekly pill minders and those for eye drops, creams, patches, and inhalers) are not child-resistant and young children can open them easily. To protect young children from poisoning, always lock safety caps and immediately place the medication in a safe location – one that is up and away and out of their sight and reach. http://www.upandaway.org Unneeded medications should be disposed of in special ways to ensure that pets, children, and other people cannot consume them. However, you should not flush this medication down the toilet. Instead, the best way to dispose of your medication is through a medicine take-back program. Talk to your pharmacist or contact your local garbage/recycling department to learn about take-back programs in your community. See the FDA's Safe Disposal of Medicines website ( http://goo.gl/c4Rm4p ) for more information if you do not have access to a take-back program. In case of emergency/overdose In case of overdose, call the poison control helpline at 1-800-222-1222. Information is also available online at https://www.poisonhelp.org/help . If the victim has collapsed, had a seizure, has trouble breathing, or can't be awakened, immediately call emergency services at 911. Symptoms of overdose may include: burning pain in the throat or stomach vomiting decreased urination fever restlessness irritability talking a lot and saying things that do not make sense fear or nervousness dizziness double vision uncontrollable shaking of a part of the body confusion abnormally excited mood hallucination (seeing things or hearing voices that are not there) seizures drowsiness loss of consciousness for a period of time What other information should I know? Keep all appointments with your doctor. If you are taking prescription aspirin, do not let anyone else take your medication. Ask your pharmacist any questions you have about refilling your prescription. It is important for you to keep a written list of all of the prescription and nonprescription (over-the-counter) medicines you are taking, as well as any products such as vitamins, minerals, or other dietary supplements. You should bring this list with you each time you visit a doctor or if you are admitted to a hospital. It is also important information to carry with you in case of emergencies. Brand names Acuprin ® Anacin ® Aspirin Regimen Ascriptin ® Aspergum ® Aspidrox ® Aspir-Mox ® Aspirtab ® Aspir-trin ® Bayer ® Aspirin Bufferin ® Buffex ® Easprin ® Ecotrin ® Empirin ® Entaprin ® Entercote ® Fasprin ® Genacote ® Gennin-FC ® Genprin ® Halfprin ® Magnaprin ® Miniprin ® Minitabs ® Ridiprin ® Sloprin ® Uni-Buff ® Uni-Tren ® Valomag ® Zorprin ®

[ Aspirin pronounced as (as' pir in) To use the sharing features on this page, please enable JavaScript. Why is this medication prescribed? How should this medicine be used? Other uses for this medicine What special precautions should I follow? What special dietary instructions should I follow? What should I do if I forget a dose? What side effects can this medication cause? What should I know about storage and disposal of this medication? In case of emergency/overdose What other information should I know? Brand names Other names Why is this medication prescribed? Prescription aspirin is used to relieve the symptoms of rheumatoid arthritis (arthritis caused by swelling of the lining of the joints), osteoarthritis (arthritis caused by breakdown of the lining of the joints), systemic lupus erythematosus (condition in which the immune system attacks the joints and organs and causes pain and swelling) and certain other rheumatologic conditions (conditions in which the immune system attacks parts of the body). Nonprescription aspirin is used to reduce fever and to relieve mild to moderate pain from headaches, menstrual periods, arthritis, toothaches, and muscle aches. Nonprescription aspirin is also used to prevent heart attacks in people who have had a heart attack in the past or who have angina (chest pain that occurs when the heart does not get enough oxygen). Nonprescription aspirin is also used to reduce the risk of death in people who are experiencing or who have recently experienced a heart attack. Nonprescription aspirin is also used to prevent ischemic strokes (strokes that occur when a blood clot blocks the flow of blood to the brain) or mini-strokes (strokes that occur when the flow of blood to the brain is blocked for a short time) in people who have had this type of stroke or mini-stroke in the past. Aspirin will not prevent hemorrhagic strokes (strokes caused by bleeding in the brain). Aspirin is in a group of medications called salicylates. It works by stopping the production of certain natural substances that cause fever, pain, swelling, and blood clots. Aspirin is also available in combination with other medications such as antacids, pain relievers, and cough and cold medications. This monograph only includes information about the use of aspirin alone. If you are taking a combination product, read the information on the package or prescription label or ask your doctor or pharmacist for more information. How should this medicine be used? Prescription aspirin comes as an extended-release (long-acting) tablet. Nonprescription aspirin comes as a regular tablet, a delayed-release (releases the medication in the intestine to prevent damage to the stomach) tablet, a chewable tablet, powder, and a gum to take by mouth. Prescription aspirin is usually taken two or more times a day. Nonprescription aspirin is usually taken once a day to lower the risk of a heart attack or stroke. Nonprescription aspirin is usually taken every 4 to 6 hours as needed to treat fever or pain. Follow the directions on the package or prescription label carefully, and ask your doctor or pharmacist to explain any part you do not understand. Take aspirin exactly as directed. Do not take more or less of it or take it more often than directed by the package label or prescribed by your doctor. Swallow the extended-release tablets whole with a full glass of water. Do not break, crush, or chew them. Swallow the delayed-release tablets with a full glass of water. Chewable aspirin tablets may be chewed, crushed, or swallowed whole. Drink a full glass of water, immediately after taking these tablets. Ask a doctor before you give aspirin to your child or teenager. Aspirin may cause Reye's syndrome (a serious condition in which fat builds up on the brain, liver, and other body organs) in children and teenagers, especially if they have a virus such as chicken pox or the flu. If you have had oral surgery or surgery to remove your tonsils in the last 7 days, talk to your doctor about which types of aspirin are safe for you. Delayed-release tablets begin to work some time after they are taken. Do not take delayed-release tablets for fever or pain that must be relieved quickly. Stop taking aspirin and call your doctor if your fever lasts longer than 3 days, if your pain lasts longer than 10 days, or if the part of your body that was painful becomes red or swollen. You may have a condition that must be treated by a doctor. Other uses for this medicine Aspirin is also sometimes used to treat rheumatic fever (a serious condition that may develop after a strep throat infection and may cause swelling of the heart valves) and Kawasaki disease (an illness that may cause heart problems in children). Aspirin is also sometimes used to lower the risk of blood clots in patients who have artificial heart valves or certain other heart conditions and to prevent certain complications of pregnancy. What special precautions should I follow? Before taking aspirin, tell your doctor and pharmacist if you are allergic to aspirin, other medications for pain or fever, tartrazine dye, or any other medications. tell your doctor and pharmacist what prescription and nonprescription medications, vitamins, nutritional supplements, and herbal products you are taking or plan to take. Be sure to mention any of the following: acetazolamide (Diamox); angiotensin-converting enzyme (ACE) inhibitors such as benazepril (Lotensin), captopril (Capoten), enalapril (Vasotec), fosinopril (Monopril), lisinopril (Prinivil, Zestril), moexipril (Univasc), perindopril, (Aceon), quinapril (Accupril), ramipril (Altace), and trandolapril (Mavik); anticoagulants ('blood thinners') such as warfarin (Coumadin) and heparin; beta blockers such as atenolol (Tenormin), labetalol (Normodyne), metoprolol (Lopressor, Toprol XL), nadolol (Corgard), and propranolol (Inderal); diuretics ('water pills'); medications for diabetes or arthritis; medications for gout such as probenecid and sulfinpyrazone (Anturane); methotrexate (Trexall); other nonsteroidal anti-inflammatory drugs (NSAIDs) such as naproxen (Aleve, Naprosyn); phenytoin (Dilantin); and valproic acid (Depakene, Depakote). Your doctor may need to change the doses of your medications or monitor you more carefully for side effects. if you are taking aspirin on a regular basis to prevent heart attack or stroke, do not take ibuprofen (Advil, Motrin) to treat pain or fever without talking to your doctor. Your doctor will probably tell you to allow some time to pass between taking your daily dose of aspirin and taking a dose of ibuprofen. tell your doctor if you have or have ever had asthma, frequent stuffed or runny nose, or nasal polyps (growths on the linings of the nose). If you have these conditions, there is a risk that you will have an allergic reaction to aspirin. Your doctor may tell you that you should not take aspirin. tell your doctor if you often have heartburn, upset stomach, or stomach pain and if you have or have ever had ulcers, anemia, bleeding problems such as hemophilia, or kidney or liver disease. tell your doctor if you are pregnant, you plan to become pregnant, or if you are breast-feeding. Low dose aspirin 81-mg may be taken during pregnancy, but aspirin doses greater that 81 mg may harm the fetus and cause problems with delivery if it is taken around 20 weeks or later during pregnancy. Do not take aspirin doses greater that 81 mg (e.g., 325 mg) around or after 20 weeks of pregnancy, unless told to do so by your doctor. If you become pregnant while taking aspirin or aspirin containing medications, call your doctor. if you are having surgery, including dental surgery, tell the doctor or dentist that you are taking aspirin. if you drink three or more alcoholic drinks every day, ask your doctor if you should take aspirin or other medications for pain and fever. What special dietary instructions should I follow? Unless your doctor tells you otherwise, continue your normal diet. What should I do if I forget a dose? If your doctor has told you to take aspirin on a regular basis and you miss a dose, take the missed dose as soon as you remember it. However, if it is almost time for the next dose, skip the missed dose and continue your regular dosing schedule. Do not take a double dose to make up for a missed one. What side effects can this medication cause? Aspirin may cause side effects. Tell your doctor if any of these symptoms are severe or do not go away: nausea vomiting stomach pain heartburn Some side effects can be serious. If you experience any of the following symptoms, call your doctor immediately: hives rash swelling of the eyes, face, lips, tongue, or throat wheezing or difficulty breathing hoarseness fast heartbeat fast breathing cold, clammy skin ringing in the ears loss of hearing bloody vomit vomit that looks like coffee grounds bright red blood in stools black or tarry stools Aspirin may cause other side effects. Call your doctor if you experience any unusual problems while you are taking this medication. If you experience a serious side effect, you or your doctor may send a report to the Food and Drug Administration's (FDA) MedWatch Adverse Event Reporting program online ( http://www.fda.gov/Safety/MedWatch ) or by phone (1-800-332-1088). What should I know about storage and disposal of this medication? Keep this medication in the container it came in, tightly closed, and out of reach of children. Store it at room temperature and away from excess heat and moisture (not in the bathroom). Dispose of any tablets that have a strong vinegar smell. It is important to keep all medication out of sight and reach of children as many containers (such as weekly pill minders and those for eye drops, creams, patches, and inhalers) are not child-resistant and young children can open them easily. To protect young children from poisoning, always lock safety caps and immediately place the medication in a safe location – one that is up and away and out of their sight and reach. http://www.upandaway.org Unneeded medications should be disposed of in special ways to ensure that pets, children, and other people cannot consume them. However, you should not flush this medication down the toilet. Instead, the best way to dispose of your medication is through a medicine take-back program. Talk to your pharmacist or contact your local garbage/recycling department to learn about take-back programs in your community. See the FDA's Safe Disposal of Medicines website ( http://goo.gl/c4Rm4p ) for more information if you do not have access to a take-back program. In case of emergency/overdose In case of overdose, call the poison control helpline at 1-800-222-1222. Information is also available online at https://www.poisonhelp.org/help . If the victim has collapsed, had a seizure, has trouble breathing, or can't be awakened, immediately call emergency services at 911. Symptoms of overdose may include: burning pain in the throat or stomach vomiting decreased urination fever restlessness irritability talking a lot and saying things that do not make sense fear or nervousness dizziness double vision uncontrollable shaking of a part of the body confusion abnormally excited mood hallucination (seeing things or hearing voices that are not there) seizures drowsiness loss of consciousness for a period of time What other information should I know? Keep all appointments with your doctor. If you are taking prescription aspirin, do not let anyone else take your medication. Ask your pharmacist any questions you have about refilling your prescription. It is important for you to keep a written list of all of the prescription and nonprescription (over-the-counter) medicines you are taking, as well as any products such as vitamins, minerals, or other dietary supplements. You should bring this list with you each time you visit a doctor or if you are admitted to a hospital. It is also important information to carry with you in case of emergencies. Brand names Acuprin ® Anacin ® Aspirin Regimen Ascriptin ® Aspergum ® Aspidrox ® Aspir-Mox ® Aspirtab ® Aspir-trin ® Bayer ® Aspirin Bufferin ® Buffex ® Easprin ® Ecotrin ® Empirin ® Entaprin ® Entercote ® Fasprin ® Genacote ® Gennin-FC ® Genprin ® Halfprin ® Magnaprin ® Miniprin ® Minitabs ® Ridiprin ® Sloprin ® Uni-Buff ® Uni-Tren ® Valomag ® Zorprin ®

[ Aspirin pronounced as (as' pir in) To use the sharing features on this page, please enable JavaScript. Why is this medication prescribed? How should this medicine be used? Other uses for this medicine What special precautions should I follow? What special dietary instructions should I follow? What should I do if I forget a dose? What side effects can this medication cause? What should I know about storage and disposal of this medication? In case of emergency/overdose What other information should I know? Brand names Other names Why is this medication prescribed? Prescription aspirin is used to relieve the symptoms of rheumatoid arthritis (arthritis caused by swelling of the lining of the joints), osteoarthritis (arthritis caused by breakdown of the lining of the joints), systemic lupus erythematosus (condition in which the immune system attacks the joints and organs and causes pain and swelling) and certain other rheumatologic conditions (conditions in which the immune system attacks parts of the body). Nonprescription aspirin is used to reduce fever and to relieve mild to moderate pain from headaches, menstrual periods, arthritis, toothaches, and muscle aches. Nonprescription aspirin is also used to prevent heart attacks in people who have had a heart attack in the past or who have angina (chest pain that occurs when the heart does not get enough oxygen). Nonprescription aspirin is also used to reduce the risk of death in people who are experiencing or who have recently experienced a heart attack. Nonprescription aspirin is also used to prevent ischemic strokes (strokes that occur when a blood clot blocks the flow of blood to the brain) or mini-strokes (strokes that occur when the flow of blood to the brain is blocked for a short time) in people who have had this type of stroke or mini-stroke in the past. Aspirin will not prevent hemorrhagic strokes (strokes caused by bleeding in the brain). Aspirin is in a group of medications called salicylates. It works by stopping the production of certain natural substances that cause fever, pain, swelling, and blood clots. Aspirin is also available in combination with other medications such as antacids, pain relievers, and cough and cold medications. This monograph only includes information about the use of aspirin alone. If you are taking a combination product, read the information on the package or prescription label or ask your doctor or pharmacist for more information. How should this medicine be used? Prescription aspirin comes as an extended-release (long-acting) tablet. Nonprescription aspirin comes as a regular tablet, a delayed-release (releases the medication in the intestine to prevent damage to the stomach) tablet, a chewable tablet, powder, and a gum to take by mouth. Prescription aspirin is usually taken two or more times a day. Nonprescription aspirin is usually taken once a day to lower the risk of a heart attack or stroke. Nonprescription aspirin is usually taken every 4 to 6 hours as needed to treat fever or pain. Follow the directions on the package or prescription label carefully, and ask your doctor or pharmacist to explain any part you do not understand. Take aspirin exactly as directed. Do not take more or less of it or take it more often than directed by the package label or prescribed by your doctor. Swallow the extended-release tablets whole with a full glass of water. Do not break, crush, or chew them. Swallow the delayed-release tablets with a full glass of water. Chewable aspirin tablets may be chewed, crushed, or swallowed whole. Drink a full glass of water, immediately after taking these tablets. Ask a doctor before you give aspirin to your child or teenager. Aspirin may cause Reye's syndrome (a serious condition in which fat builds up on the brain, liver, and other body organs) in children and teenagers, especially if they have a virus such as chicken pox or the flu. If you have had oral surgery or surgery to remove your tonsils in the last 7 days, talk to your doctor about which types of aspirin are safe for you. Delayed-release tablets begin to work some time after they are taken. Do not take delayed-release tablets for fever or pain that must be relieved quickly. Stop taking aspirin and call your doctor if your fever lasts longer than 3 days, if your pain lasts longer than 10 days, or if the part of your body that was painful becomes red or swollen. You may have a condition that must be treated by a doctor. Other uses for this medicine Aspirin is also sometimes used to treat rheumatic fever (a serious condition that may develop after a strep throat infection and may cause swelling of the heart valves) and Kawasaki disease (an illness that may cause heart problems in children). Aspirin is also sometimes used to lower the risk of blood clots in patients who have artificial heart valves or certain other heart conditions and to prevent certain complications of pregnancy. What special precautions should I follow? Before taking aspirin, tell your doctor and pharmacist if you are allergic to aspirin, other medications for pain or fever, tartrazine dye, or any other medications. tell your doctor and pharmacist what prescription and nonprescription medications, vitamins, nutritional supplements, and herbal products you are taking or plan to take. Be sure to mention any of the following: acetazolamide (Diamox); angiotensin-converting enzyme (ACE) inhibitors such as benazepril (Lotensin), captopril (Capoten), enalapril (Vasotec), fosinopril (Monopril), lisinopril (Prinivil, Zestril), moexipril (Univasc), perindopril, (Aceon), quinapril (Accupril), ramipril (Altace), and trandolapril (Mavik); anticoagulants ('blood thinners') such as warfarin (Coumadin) and heparin; beta blockers such as atenolol (Tenormin), labetalol (Normodyne), metoprolol (Lopressor, Toprol XL), nadolol (Corgard), and propranolol (Inderal); diuretics ('water pills'); medications for diabetes or arthritis; medications for gout such as probenecid and sulfinpyrazone (Anturane); methotrexate (Trexall); other nonsteroidal anti-inflammatory drugs (NSAIDs) such as naproxen (Aleve, Naprosyn); phenytoin (Dilantin); and valproic acid (Depakene, Depakote). Your doctor may need to change the doses of your medications or monitor you more carefully for side effects. if you are taking aspirin on a regular basis to prevent heart attack or stroke, do not take ibuprofen (Advil, Motrin) to treat pain or fever without talking to your doctor. Your doctor will probably tell you to allow some time to pass between taking your daily dose of aspirin and taking a dose of ibuprofen. tell your doctor if you have or have ever had asthma, frequent stuffed or runny nose, or nasal polyps (growths on the linings of the nose). If you have these conditions, there is a risk that you will have an allergic reaction to aspirin. Your doctor may tell you that you should not take aspirin. tell your doctor if you often have heartburn, upset stomach, or stomach pain and if you have or have ever had ulcers, anemia, bleeding problems such as hemophilia, or kidney or liver disease. tell your doctor if you are pregnant, you plan to become pregnant, or if you are breast-feeding. Low dose aspirin 81-mg may be taken during pregnancy, but aspirin doses greater that 81 mg may harm the fetus and cause problems with delivery if it is taken around 20 weeks or later during pregnancy. Do not take aspirin doses greater that 81 mg (e.g., 325 mg) around or after 20 weeks of pregnancy, unless told to do so by your doctor. If you become pregnant while taking aspirin or aspirin containing medications, call your doctor. if you are having surgery, including dental surgery, tell the doctor or dentist that you are taking aspirin. if you drink three or more alcoholic drinks every day, ask your doctor if you should take aspirin or other medications for pain and fever. What special dietary instructions should I follow? Unless your doctor tells you otherwise, continue your normal diet. What should I do if I forget a dose? If your doctor has told you to take aspirin on a regular basis and you miss a dose, take the missed dose as soon as you remember it. However, if it is almost time for the next dose, skip the missed dose and continue your regular dosing schedule. Do not take a double dose to make up for a missed one. What side effects can this medication cause? Aspirin may cause side effects. Tell your doctor if any of these symptoms are severe or do not go away: nausea vomiting stomach pain heartburn Some side effects can be serious. If you experience any of the following symptoms, call your doctor immediately: hives rash swelling of the eyes, face, lips, tongue, or throat wheezing or difficulty breathing hoarseness fast heartbeat fast breathing cold, clammy skin ringing in the ears loss of hearing bloody vomit vomit that looks like coffee grounds bright red blood in stools black or tarry stools Aspirin may cause other side effects. Call your doctor if you experience any unusual problems while you are taking this medication. If you experience a serious side effect, you or your doctor may send a report to the Food and Drug Administration's (FDA) MedWatch Adverse Event Reporting program online ( http://www.fda.gov/Safety/MedWatch ) or by phone (1-800-332-1088). What should I know about storage and disposal of this medication? Keep this medication in the container it came in, tightly closed, and out of reach of children. Store it at room temperature and away from excess heat and moisture (not in the bathroom). Dispose of any tablets that have a strong vinegar smell. It is important to keep all medication out of sight and reach of children as many containers (such as weekly pill minders and those for eye drops, creams, patches, and inhalers) are not child-resistant and young children can open them easily. To protect young children from poisoning, always lock safety caps and immediately place the medication in a safe location – one that is up and away and out of their sight and reach. http://www.upandaway.org Unneeded medications should be disposed of in special ways to ensure that pets, children, and other people cannot consume them. However, you should not flush this medication down the toilet. Instead, the best way to dispose of your medication is through a medicine take-back program. Talk to your pharmacist or contact your local garbage/recycling department to learn about take-back programs in your community. See the FDA's Safe Disposal of Medicines website ( http://goo.gl/c4Rm4p ) for more information if you do not have access to a take-back program. In case of emergency/overdose In case of overdose, call the poison control helpline at 1-800-222-1222. Information is also available online at https://www.poisonhelp.org/help . If the victim has collapsed, had a seizure, has trouble breathing, or can't be awakened, immediately call emergency services at 911. Symptoms of overdose may include: burning pain in the throat or stomach vomiting decreased urination fever restlessness irritability talking a lot and saying things that do not make sense fear or nervousness dizziness double vision uncontrollable shaking of a part of the body confusion abnormally excited mood hallucination (seeing things or hearing voices that are not there) seizures drowsiness loss of consciousness for a period of time What other information should I know? Keep all appointments with your doctor. If you are taking prescription aspirin, do not let anyone else take your medication. Ask your pharmacist any questions you have about refilling your prescription. It is important for you to keep a written list of all of the prescription and nonprescription (over-the-counter) medicines you are taking, as well as any products such as vitamins, minerals, or other dietary supplements. You should bring this list with you each time you visit a doctor or if you are admitted to a hospital. It is also important information to carry with you in case of emergencies. Brand names Acuprin ® Anacin ® Aspirin Regimen Ascriptin ® Aspergum ® Aspidrox ® Aspir-Mox ® Aspirtab ® Aspir-trin ® Bayer ® Aspirin Bufferin ® Buffex ® Easprin ® Ecotrin ® Empirin ® Entaprin ® Entercote ® Fasprin ® Genacote ® Gennin-FC ® Genprin ® Halfprin ® Magnaprin ® Miniprin ® Minitabs ® Ridiprin ® Sloprin ® Uni-Buff ® Uni-Tren ® Valomag ® Zorprin ®

[ Diphenhydramine pronounced as (dye fen hye' dra meen)  Diphenhydramine is used to relieve red, irritated, itchy, watery eyes; sneezing; and runny nose caused by hay fever, allergies, or the common cold. Diphenhydramine is also used to relieve cough caused by minor throat or airway irritation. Diphenhydramine is also used to prevent and treat motion sickness, and to treat insomnia (difficulty falling asleep or staying asleep). Diphenhydramine is also used to control abnormal movements in people who have early stage parkinsonian syndrome (a disorder of the nervous system that causes difficulties with movement, muscle control, and balance) or who are experiencing movement problems as a side effect of a medication. Diphenhydramine will relieve the symptoms of these conditions but will not treat the cause of the symptoms or speed recovery. Diphenhydramine should not be used to cause sleepiness in children. Diphenhydramine is in a class of medications called antihistamines. It works by blocking the action of histamine, a substance in the body that causes allergic symptoms. How should this medicine be used? Diphenhydramine comes as a tablet, a rapidly disintegrating (dissolving) tablet, a capsule, a liquid-filled capsule, a dissolving strip, powder, and a liquid to take by mouth. When diphenhydramine is used for the relief of allergies, cold, and cough symptoms, it is usually taken every 4 to 6 hours. When diphenhydramine is used to treat motion sickness, it is usually taken 30 minutes before departure and, if needed, before meals and at bedtime. When diphenhydramine is used to treat insomnia it is taken at bedtime (30 minutes before planned sleep). When diphenhydramine is used to treat abnormal movements, it is usually taken three times a day at first and then taken 4 times a day. Follow the directions on the package or on your prescription label carefully, and ask your doctor or pharmacist to explain any part you do not understand. Take diphenhydramine exactly as directed. Do not take more or less of it or take it more often than prescribed by your doctor or directed on the label. Diphenhydramine comes alone and in combination with pain relievers, fever reducers, and decongestants. Ask your doctor or pharmacist for advice on which product is best for your symptoms. Check nonprescription cough and cold product labels carefully before using two or more products at the same time. These products may contain the same active ingredient(s) and taking them together could cause you to receive an overdose. This is especially important if you will be giving cough and cold medications to a child. Nonprescription cough and cold combination products, including products that contain diphenhydramine, can cause serious side effects or death in young children. Do not give these products to children younger than 4 years of age. If you give these products to children 4 to 11 years of age, use caution and follow the package directions carefully. If you are giving diphenhydramine or a combination product that contains diphenhydramine to a child, read the package label carefully to be sure that it is the right product for a child of that age. Do not give diphenhydramine products that are made for adults to children. Before you give a diphenhydramine product to a child, check the package label to find out how much medication the child should receive. Give the dose that matches the child's age on the chart. Ask the child's doctor if you don't know how much medication to give the child. If you are taking the liquid, do not use a household spoon to measure your dose. Use the measuring spoon or cup that came with the medication or use a spoon made especially for measuring medication. If you are taking the dissolving strips, place the strips on your tongue one at a time and swallow after they melt. If you are taking the rapidly dissolving tablets, place a tablet on your tongue and close your mouth. The tablet will quickly dissolve and can be swallowed with or without water. If you are taking the capsules, swallow them whole. Do not try to break the capsules. Other uses for this medicine This medication is sometimes prescribed for other uses; ask your doctor or pharmacist for more information. What special precautions should I follow? Before taking diphenhydramine, tell your doctor and pharmacist if you are allergic to diphenhydramine, any other medications, or any of the ingredients in diphenhydramine preparations. Ask your doctor or pharmacist or check the package label for a list of the ingredients. tell your doctor and pharmacist what prescription and nonprescription medications, vitamins, nutritional supplements, and herbal products you are taking or plan to take. Be sure to mention any of the following: other diphenhydramine products (even those that are used on the skin); other medications for colds, hay fever, or allergies; medications for anxiety, depression, or seizures; muscle relaxants; narcotic medications for pain; sedatives; sleeping pills; and tranquilizers. tell your doctor if you have or have ever had asthma, emphysema, chronic bronchitis, or other types of lung disease; glaucoma (a condition in which increased pressure in the eye can lead to gradual loss of vision); ulcers; difficulty urinating (due to an enlarged prostate gland); heart disease; high blood pressure; seizures; or an overactive thyroid gland.If you will be using the liquid, tell your doctor if you have been told to follow a low-sodium diet. tell your doctor if you are pregnant, plan to become pregnant, or are breast-feeding. If you become pregnant while taking diphenhydramine, call your doctor. you should know that generally diphenhydramine should not be used in older adults, except to manage serious allergic reactions, because it is not as safe or effective as other medication(s) to treat your condition. If you are 65 years of age or older, talk to your doctor about the risks and benefits of taking this medication. if you are having surgery, including dental surgery, tell the doctor or dentist that you are taking diphenhydramine. you should know that this medication may make you drowsy. Do not drive a car or operate machinery until you know how this medication affects you. remember that alcohol can add to the drowsiness caused by this medication. Avoid alcoholic beverages while you are taking this medication. if you have phenylketonuria (PKU, an inherited condition in which a special diet must be followed to prevent damage to your brain that can cause severe intellectual disability), you should know that some brands of chewable tablets and rapidly disintegrating tablets that contain diphenhydramine may be sweetened with aspartame, a source of phenylalanine. What special dietary instructions should I follow? Unless your doctor tells you otherwise, continue your normal diet. What should I do if I forget a dose? Diphenhydramine is usually taken as needed. If your doctor has told you to take diphenhydramine regularly, take the missed dose as soon as you remember it. However, if it is almost time for the next dose, skip the missed dose and continue your regular dosing schedule. Do not take a double dose to make up for a missed one. What side effects can this medication cause? Diphenhydramine may cause side effects. Tell your doctor if any of these symptoms are severe or do not go away: dry mouth, nose, and throat drowsiness dizziness nausea vomiting loss of appetite constipation increased chest congestion headache muscle weakness excitement (especially in children) nervousness Some side effects may be serious. If you experience any of the following symptoms, call your doctor immediately: vision problems difficulty urinating or painful urination Diphenhydramine may cause other side effects. Call your doctor if you experience any unusual problems while you are taking this medication. If you experience a serious side effect, you or your doctor may send a report to the Food and Drug Administration's (FDA) MedWatch Adverse Event Reporting program online ( http://www.fda.gov/Safety/MedWatch ) or by phone (1-800-332-1088). What should I know about storage and disposal of this medication? Keep this medication in the container it came in, tightly closed, and out of reach of children. Store it at room temperature and away from excess heat and moisture (not in the bathroom). It is important to keep all medication out of sight and reach of children as many containers (such as weekly pill minders and those for eye drops, creams, patches, and inhalers) are not child-resistant and young children can open them easily. To protect young children from poisoning, always lock safety caps and immediately place the medication in a safe location – one that is up and away and out of their sight and reach. http://www.upandaway.org Unneeded medications should be disposed of in special ways to ensure that pets, children, and other people cannot consume them. However, you should not flush this medication down the toilet. Instead, the best way to dispose of your medication is through a medicine take-back program. Talk to your pharmacist or contact your local garbage/recycling department to learn about take-back programs in your community. See the FDA's Safe Disposal of Medicines website ( http://goo.gl/c4Rm4p ) for more information if you do not have access to a take-back program. In case of emergency/overdose In case of overdose, call the poison control helpline at 1-800-222-1222. Information is also available online at https://www.poisonhelp.org/help . If the victim has collapsed, had a seizure, has trouble breathing, or can't be awakened, immediately call emergency services at 911. What other information should I know? Ask your pharmacist any questions you have about diphenhydramine. It is important for you to keep a written list of all of the prescription and nonprescription (over-the-counter) medicines you are taking, as well as any products such as vitamins, minerals, or other dietary supplements. You should bring this list with you each time you visit a doctor or if you are admitted to a hospital. It is also important information to carry with you in case of emergencies. Brand names Aler-Dryl ® Allergia-C ® ¶ Allermax ® ¶ Altaryl ® ¶ Banophen ® ¶ Ben Tann ® § Benadryl ® Bromanate AF ® ¶ Compoz Nighttime Sleep Aid ® ¶ Dicopanol ® § Diphedryl ® ¶ Diphen ® ¶ Diphenadryl ® ¶ Diphenhist ® Diphenylin ® ¶ Dytan ® ¶ Hydramine ® ¶ Nytol ® Pardryl ® ¶ PediaCare Children's Allergy ® Siladryl ® Silphen ® Sominex ® Unisom ®







[ Naproxen pronounced as (na prox' en) To use the sharing features on this page, please enable JavaScript. Why is this medication prescribed? How should this medicine be used? Other uses for this medicine What special precautions should I follow? What special dietary instructions should I follow? What should I do if I forget a dose? What side effects can this medication cause? What should I know about storage and disposal of this medication? In case of emergency/overdose What other information should I know? Brand names IMPORTANT WARNING: People who take nonsteroidal anti-inflammatory drugs (NSAIDs) (other than aspirin) such as naproxen may have a higher risk of having a heart attack or a stroke than people who do not take these medications. These events may happen without warning and may cause death. These problems may develop at any time during treatment, but the risk may be higher for people who take NSAIDs for a long time or at higher doses. Do not take an NSAID such as naproxen if you have recently had a heart attack, unless directed to do so by your doctor. Tell your doctor if you or anyone in your family has or has ever had heart disease, a heart attack, or a stroke, if you smoke, and if you have or have ever had high cholesterol, high blood pressure, or diabetes. Get emergency medical help right away if you experience any of the following symptoms: chest pain, shortness of breath, weakness in one part or side of the body, or slurred speech. If you will be undergoing a coronary artery bypass graft (CABG; a type of heart surgery), you should not take naproxen right before or right after the surgery. NSAIDs such as naproxen may cause ulcers, bleeding, or holes in the esophagus (tube between the mouth and stomach), stomach, or intestine. These problems may develop at any time during treatment, may happen without warning symptoms, and may cause death. The risk may be higher for people who take NSAIDs for a long time or at higher doses, are older in age, have poor health, who smoke, or who drink large amounts of alcohol while taking naproxen. Tell your doctor if you take any of the following medications: anticoagulants (''blood thinners'') such as warfarin (Coumadin, Jantoven); aspirin; other NSAIDs such as ibuprofen (Advil, Motrin) and ketoprofen; oral steroids such as dexamethasone, methylprednisolone (Medrol), and prednisone (Rayos); salicylate pain relievers such as diflunisal, magnesium salicylate (Doan's, others), and salsalate; selective serotonin reuptake inhibitors (SSRIs) such as citalopram (Celexa), fluoxetine (Prozac, in Symbyax), fluvoxamine (Luvox), paroxetine (Brisdelle, Paxil, Pexeva), and sertraline (Zoloft); or serotonin norepinephrine reuptake inhibitors (SNRIs) such as desvenlafaxine (Pristiq), duloxetine (Cymbalta), and venlafaxine (Effexor XR). Also tell your doctor if you have or have ever had ulcers, bleeding in your stomach or intestines, other bleeding disorders, or liver disease. If you experience any of the following symptoms, stop taking naproxen and call your doctor: stomach pain, heartburn, vomit that is bloody or looks like coffee grounds, blood in the stool, or black and tarry stools. Keep all appointments with your doctor and the laboratory. Your doctor will monitor your symptoms carefully and will probably order certain tests to check your body's response to naproxen. Be sure to tell your doctor how you are feeling so that your doctor can prescribe the right amount of medication to treat your condition with the lowest risk of serious side effects. Your doctor or pharmacist will give you the manufacturer's patient information sheet (Medication Guide) when you begin treatment with prescription naproxen and each time you refill your prescription. Read the information carefully and ask your doctor or pharmacist if you have any questions. You can also visit the Food and Drug Administration (FDA) website ( http://www.fda.gov/Drugs/DrugSafety/ucm085729.htm ) or the manufacturer's website to obtain the Medication Guide. Why is this medication prescribed? Prescription naproxen is used to relieve pain, tenderness, swelling, and stiffness caused by osteoarthritis (arthritis caused by a breakdown of the lining of the joints), rheumatoid arthritis (arthritis caused by swelling of the lining of the joints), juvenile arthritis (a form of joint disease in children), and ankylosing spondylitis (arthritis that mainly affects the spine). Prescription naproxen tablets, extended-release tablets, and suspension are also used to relieve shoulder pain caused by bursitis (inflammation of a fluid-filled sac in the shoulder joint), tendinitis (inflammation of the tissue that connects muscle to bone), gouty arthritis (attacks of joint pain caused by a build-up of certain substances in the joints), and pain from other causes, including menstrual pain (pain that happens before or during a menstrual period). Nonprescription naproxen is used to reduce fever and to relieve mild pain from headaches, muscle aches, arthritis, menstrual periods, the common cold, toothaches, and backaches. Naproxen is in a class of medications called NSAIDs. It works by stopping the body's production of a substance that causes pain, fever, and inflammation. How should this medicine be used? Prescription naproxen comes as a regular tablet, a delayed-release (a tablet that releases the medication in the intestine to prevent damage to the stomach) tablet, an extended-release (long-acting) tablet, and a suspension (liquid) to take by mouth. The extended-release tablets are usually taken once a day. The tablets, delayed-release tablets, and suspension are usually taken twice a day for arthritis. The tablets and suspension are usually taken every 8 hours for gout, and every 6 to 8 hours as needed for pain. If you are taking naproxen on a regular basis, you should take it at the same time(s) every day. Nonprescription naproxen comes as tablet, a capsule, and a gel capsule to take by mouth. It is usually taken with a full glass of water every 8 to 12 hours as needed. Nonprescription naproxen may be taken with food or milk to prevent nausea. Follow the directions on the package or prescription label carefully, and ask your doctor or pharmacist to explain any part you do not understand. Take naproxen exactly as directed. Do not take more or less of it or take it more often than prescribed by your doctor or written on the package. If you are taking the suspension, gently shake the suspension well before each use to mix the medication evenly. Use an oral syringe or measuring cup provided by your pharmacist to measure the correct amount of liquid needed for your dose. Swallow the delayed-release tablets and extended release tablets whole; do not split, chew, or crush them. If you are taking naproxen to relieve the symptoms of arthritis, your symptoms may begin to improve within 1 week. It may take 2 weeks or longer for you to feel the full benefit of the medication. Stop taking nonprescription naproxen and call your doctor if your symptoms get worse, you develop new or unexpected symptoms, the part of your body that was painful becomes red or swollen, your pain lasts for more than 10 days, or your fever lasts for more than 3 days. Other uses for this medicine Naproxen is also sometimes used to treat Paget's disease of bone (a condition in which the bones become abnormally thick, fragile, and misshapen) and Bartter syndrome (a condition in which the body does not absorb enough potassium, causing muscle cramping and weakness and other symptoms). Talk to your doctor about the risks of using this medication for your condition. This medication is sometimes prescribed for other uses; ask your doctor or pharmacist for more information. What special precautions should I follow? Before taking naproxen, tell your doctor and pharmacist if you are allergic to naproxen, aspirin or other NSAIDs such as ibuprofen (Advil, Motrin) and ketoprofen, any medications for pain or fever, other medications, or any of the ingredients in naproxen products. Ask your doctor or pharmacist for a list of the ingredients. tell your doctor and pharmacist what prescription and nonprescription medications, vitamins, nutritional supplements, and herbal products you are taking or plan to take. Be sure to mention the medications listed in the IMPORTANT WARNING section and any of the following: angiotensin-converting enzyme (ACE) inhibitors such as benazepril (Lotensin, in Lotrel), captopril, enalapril (Vasotec, in Vaseretic), fosinopril, lisinopril (Zestril, in Zestoretic), moexipril (Univasc), perindopril (Aceon, in Prestalia), quinapril (Accupril, in Accuretic, in Quinaretic), ramipril (Altace), and trandolapril (Mavik, in Tarka); angiotensin receptor blockers (ARBs) such as azilsartan (Edarbi, in Edarbyclor), candesartan (Atacand, in Atacand HCT), eprosartan (Teveten), irbesartan (Avapro, in Avalide), losartan (Cozaar, in Hyzaar), olmesartan (Benicar, in Azor, in Benicar HCT, in Tribenzor), telmisartan (Micardis, in Micardis HCT, in Twynsta), and valsartan (in Exforge HCT); beta blockers such as atenolol (Tenormin, in Tenoretic), labetalol (Trandate), metoprolol (Lopressor, Toprol XL, in Dutoprol), nadolol (Corgard, in Corzide), and propranolol (Hemangeol, Inderal, InnoPran); cholestyramine (Prevalite); cyclosporine (Gengraf, Neoral, Sandimimune); digoxin (Lanoxin); diuretics ('water pills'); lithium (Lithobid), medications for diabetes; methotrexate (Otrexup, Rasuvo, Trexall); pemetrexed (Alimta, Pemfexy); phenytoin (Dilantin, Phenytek); probenecid (Probalan; in Col-Probenecid); and sulfa medications such as sulfamethoxazole (in Bactrim, in Septra). Also tell your doctor if you are taking antacids or sucralfate (Carafate). Your doctor may need to change the doses of your medication or monitor you more carefully for side effects. do not take nonprescription naproxen with any other medication for pain unless your doctor tells you that you should. tell your doctor if you have been told to follow a low sodium diet and if you have or have ever had any of the conditions mentioned in the IMPORTANT WARNING section or asthma, especially if you also have frequent stuffed or runny nose or nasal polyps (swelling of the inside of the nose); heart failure; swelling of the hands, arms, feet, ankles, or lower legs; anemia (red blood cells do not bring enough oxygen to all parts of the body); or kidney disease. tell your doctor if you are pregnant, plan to become pregnant; or are breast-feeding. Naproxen may harm the fetus and cause problems with delivery if it is taken around 20 weeks or later during pregnancy. Do not take naproxen around or after 20 weeks of pregnancy, unless you are told to do so by your doctor. If you become pregnant while taking naproxen, call your doctor. you should know that this medication may temporarily decrease fertility in women. Talk to your doctor about the risks of taking naproxen if you have concerns about fertility. talk to your doctor about the risks and benefits of taking naproxen if you are 65 years of age or older. Older adults should usually take lower doses of naproxen for short periods of time because higher doses used regularly may not be more effective and are more likely to cause serious side effects. if you are having surgery, including dental surgery, tell the doctor or dentist that you are taking naproxen. What special dietary instructions should I follow? Unless your doctor tells you otherwise, continue your normal diet. What should I do if I forget a dose? Take the missed dose as soon as you remember it. However, if it is almost time for the next dose, skip the missed dose and continue your regular dosing schedule. Do not take a double dose to make up for a missed one. What side effects can this medication cause? Naproxen may cause side effects. Tell your doctor if any of these symptoms are severe or do not go away: constipation gas excessive thirst headache dizziness lightheadedness drowsiness difficulty falling asleep or staying asleep burning or tingling in the arms or legs cold symptoms ringing in the ears hearing problems Some side effects can be serious. If you experience any of the following symptoms, or those mentioned in the IMPORTANT WARNING section, call your doctor immediately. Do not take any more naproxen until you speak to your doctor: changes in vision feeling that the tablet is stuck in your throat unexplained weight gain shortness of breath or difficulty breathing swelling in the abdomen, ankles, feet, or legs sore throat, fever, chills, and other signs of infection blisters rash skin reddening itching hives swelling of the eyes, face, lips, tongue, throat, arms, or hands difficulty breathing or swallowing hoarseness excessive tiredness pain in the upper right part of the stomach nausea diarrhea yellowing of the skin or eyes flu-like symptoms bruises or purple blotches under the skin fast heartbeat cloudy, discolored, or bloody urine back pain difficult or painful urination decreased urination loss of appetite confusion Naproxen may cause other side effects. Call your doctor if you have any unusual problems while taking this medication. If you experience a serious side effect, you or your doctor may send a report to the Food and Drug Administration's (FDA) MedWatch Adverse Event Reporting program online ( http://www.fda.gov/Safety/MedWatch ) or by phone (1-800-332-1088). What should I know about storage and disposal of this medication? Keep this medication in the container it came in, tightly closed, and out of reach of children. Store it at room temperature and away from excess heat and moisture (not in the bathroom). It is important to keep all medication out of sight and reach of children as many containers (such as weekly pill minders and those for eye drops, creams, patches, and inhalers) are not child-resistant and young children can open them easily. To protect young children from poisoning, always lock safety caps and immediately place the medication in a safe location – one that is up and away and out of their sight and reach. http://www.upandaway.org Unneeded medications should be disposed of in special ways to ensure that pets, children, and other people cannot consume them. However, you should not flush this medication down the toilet. Instead, the best way to dispose of your medication is through a medicine take-back program. Talk to your pharmacist or contact your local garbage/recycling department to learn about take-back programs in your community. See the FDA's Safe Disposal of Medicines website ( http://goo.gl/c4Rm4p ) for more information if you do not have access to a take-back program. In case of emergency/overdose In case of overdose, call the poison control helpline at 1-800-222-1222. Information is also available online at https://www.poisonhelp.org/help . If the victim has collapsed, had a seizure, has trouble breathing, or can't be awakened, immediately call emergency services at 911. Symptoms of overdose may include the following: extreme tiredness drowsiness stomach pain heartburn nausea vomiting slow or difficult breathing What other information should I know? Before having any laboratory test, tell your doctor and the laboratory personnel that you are taking naproxen. If you are taking prescription naproxen, do not let anyone else take your medication. Ask your pharmacist any questions you have about refilling your prescription. It is important for you to keep a written list of all of the prescription and nonprescription (over-the-counter) medicines you are taking, as well as any products such as vitamins, minerals, or other dietary supplements. You should bring this list with you each time you visit a doctor or if you are admitted to a hospital. It is also important information to carry with you in case of emergencies. Brand names Aleve ® Anaprox ® Anaprox ® DS EC-Naprosyn ® Flanax ® Naprelan ® Naprosyn ®

[ Naproxen pronounced as (na prox' en) To use the sharing features on this page, please enable JavaScript. Why is this medication prescribed? How should this medicine be used? Other uses for this medicine What special precautions should I follow? What special dietary instructions should I follow? What should I do if I forget a dose? What side effects can this medication cause? What should I know about storage and disposal of this medication? In case of emergency/overdose What other information should I know? Brand names IMPORTANT WARNING: People who take nonsteroidal anti-inflammatory drugs (NSAIDs) (other than aspirin) such as naproxen may have a higher risk of having a heart attack or a stroke than people who do not take these medications. These events may happen without warning and may cause death. These problems may develop at any time during treatment, but the risk may be higher for people who take NSAIDs for a long time or at higher doses. Do not take an NSAID such as naproxen if you have recently had a heart attack, unless directed to do so by your doctor. Tell your doctor if you or anyone in your family has or has ever had heart disease, a heart attack, or a stroke, if you smoke, and if you have or have ever had high cholesterol, high blood pressure, or diabetes. Get emergency medical help right away if you experience any of the following symptoms: chest pain, shortness of breath, weakness in one part or side of the body, or slurred speech. If you will be undergoing a coronary artery bypass graft (CABG; a type of heart surgery), you should not take naproxen right before or right after the surgery. NSAIDs such as naproxen may cause ulcers, bleeding, or holes in the esophagus (tube between the mouth and stomach), stomach, or intestine. These problems may develop at any time during treatment, may happen without warning symptoms, and may cause death. The risk may be higher for people who take NSAIDs for a long time or at higher doses, are older in age, have poor health, who smoke, or who drink large amounts of alcohol while taking naproxen. Tell your doctor if you take any of the following medications: anticoagulants (''blood thinners'') such as warfarin (Coumadin, Jantoven); aspirin; other NSAIDs such as ibuprofen (Advil, Motrin) and ketoprofen; oral steroids such as dexamethasone, methylprednisolone (Medrol), and prednisone (Rayos); salicylate pain relievers such as diflunisal, magnesium salicylate (Doan's, others), and salsalate; selective serotonin reuptake inhibitors (SSRIs) such as citalopram (Celexa), fluoxetine (Prozac, in Symbyax), fluvoxamine (Luvox), paroxetine (Brisdelle, Paxil, Pexeva), and sertraline (Zoloft); or serotonin norepinephrine reuptake inhibitors (SNRIs) such as desvenlafaxine (Pristiq), duloxetine (Cymbalta), and venlafaxine (Effexor XR). Also tell your doctor if you have or have ever had ulcers, bleeding in your stomach or intestines, other bleeding disorders, or liver disease. If you experience any of the following symptoms, stop taking naproxen and call your doctor: stomach pain, heartburn, vomit that is bloody or looks like coffee grounds, blood in the stool, or black and tarry stools. Keep all appointments with your doctor and the laboratory. Your doctor will monitor your symptoms carefully and will probably order certain tests to check your body's response to naproxen. Be sure to tell your doctor how you are feeling so that your doctor can prescribe the right amount of medication to treat your condition with the lowest risk of serious side effects. Your doctor or pharmacist will give you the manufacturer's patient information sheet (Medication Guide) when you begin treatment with prescription naproxen and each time you refill your prescription. Read the information carefully and ask your doctor or pharmacist if you have any questions. You can also visit the Food and Drug Administration (FDA) website ( http://www.fda.gov/Drugs/DrugSafety/ucm085729.htm ) or the manufacturer's website to obtain the Medication Guide. Why is this medication prescribed? Prescription naproxen is used to relieve pain, tenderness, swelling, and stiffness caused by osteoarthritis (arthritis caused by a breakdown of the lining of the joints), rheumatoid arthritis (arthritis caused by swelling of the lining of the joints), juvenile arthritis (a form of joint disease in children), and ankylosing spondylitis (arthritis that mainly affects the spine). Prescription naproxen tablets, extended-release tablets, and suspension are also used to relieve shoulder pain caused by bursitis (inflammation of a fluid-filled sac in the shoulder joint), tendinitis (inflammation of the tissue that connects muscle to bone), gouty arthritis (attacks of joint pain caused by a build-up of certain substances in the joints), and pain from other causes, including menstrual pain (pain that happens before or during a menstrual period). Nonprescription naproxen is used to reduce fever and to relieve mild pain from headaches, muscle aches, arthritis, menstrual periods, the common cold, toothaches, and backaches. Naproxen is in a class of medications called NSAIDs. It works by stopping the body's production of a substance that causes pain, fever, and inflammation. How should this medicine be used? Prescription naproxen comes as a regular tablet, a delayed-release (a tablet that releases the medication in the intestine to prevent damage to the stomach) tablet, an extended-release (long-acting) tablet, and a suspension (liquid) to take by mouth. The extended-release tablets are usually taken once a day. The tablets, delayed-release tablets, and suspension are usually taken twice a day for arthritis. The tablets and suspension are usually taken every 8 hours for gout, and every 6 to 8 hours as needed for pain. If you are taking naproxen on a regular basis, you should take it at the same time(s) every day. Nonprescription naproxen comes as tablet, a capsule, and a gel capsule to take by mouth. It is usually taken with a full glass of water every 8 to 12 hours as needed. Nonprescription naproxen may be taken with food or milk to prevent nausea. Follow the directions on the package or prescription label carefully, and ask your doctor or pharmacist to explain any part you do not understand. Take naproxen exactly as directed. Do not take more or less of it or take it more often than prescribed by your doctor or written on the package. If you are taking the suspension, gently shake the suspension well before each use to mix the medication evenly. Use an oral syringe or measuring cup provided by your pharmacist to measure the correct amount of liquid needed for your dose. Swallow the delayed-release tablets and extended release tablets whole; do not split, chew, or crush them. If you are taking naproxen to relieve the symptoms of arthritis, your symptoms may begin to improve within 1 week. It may take 2 weeks or longer for you to feel the full benefit of the medication. Stop taking nonprescription naproxen and call your doctor if your symptoms get worse, you develop new or unexpected symptoms, the part of your body that was painful becomes red or swollen, your pain lasts for more than 10 days, or your fever lasts for more than 3 days. Other uses for this medicine Naproxen is also sometimes used to treat Paget's disease of bone (a condition in which the bones become abnormally thick, fragile, and misshapen) and Bartter syndrome (a condition in which the body does not absorb enough potassium, causing muscle cramping and weakness and other symptoms). Talk to your doctor about the risks of using this medication for your condition. This medication is sometimes prescribed for other uses; ask your doctor or pharmacist for more information. What special precautions should I follow? Before taking naproxen, tell your doctor and pharmacist if you are allergic to naproxen, aspirin or other NSAIDs such as ibuprofen (Advil, Motrin) and ketoprofen, any medications for pain or fever, other medications, or any of the ingredients in naproxen products. Ask your doctor or pharmacist for a list of the ingredients. tell your doctor and pharmacist what prescription and nonprescription medications, vitamins, nutritional supplements, and herbal products you are taking or plan to take. Be sure to mention the medications listed in the IMPORTANT WARNING section and any of the following: angiotensin-converting enzyme (ACE) inhibitors such as benazepril (Lotensin, in Lotrel), captopril, enalapril (Vasotec, in Vaseretic), fosinopril, lisinopril (Zestril, in Zestoretic), moexipril (Univasc), perindopril (Aceon, in Prestalia), quinapril (Accupril, in Accuretic, in Quinaretic), ramipril (Altace), and trandolapril (Mavik, in Tarka); angiotensin receptor blockers (ARBs) such as azilsartan (Edarbi, in Edarbyclor), candesartan (Atacand, in Atacand HCT), eprosartan (Teveten), irbesartan (Avapro, in Avalide), losartan (Cozaar, in Hyzaar), olmesartan (Benicar, in Azor, in Benicar HCT, in Tribenzor), telmisartan (Micardis, in Micardis HCT, in Twynsta), and valsartan (in Exforge HCT); beta blockers such as atenolol (Tenormin, in Tenoretic), labetalol (Trandate), metoprolol (Lopressor, Toprol XL, in Dutoprol), nadolol (Corgard, in Corzide), and propranolol (Hemangeol, Inderal, InnoPran); cholestyramine (Prevalite); cyclosporine (Gengraf, Neoral, Sandimimune); digoxin (Lanoxin); diuretics ('water pills'); lithium (Lithobid), medications for diabetes; methotrexate (Otrexup, Rasuvo, Trexall); pemetrexed (Alimta, Pemfexy); phenytoin (Dilantin, Phenytek); probenecid (Probalan; in Col-Probenecid); and sulfa medications such as sulfamethoxazole (in Bactrim, in Septra). Also tell your doctor if you are taking antacids or sucralfate (Carafate). Your doctor may need to change the doses of your medication or monitor you more carefully for side effects. do not take nonprescription naproxen with any other medication for pain unless your doctor tells you that you should. tell your doctor if you have been told to follow a low sodium diet and if you have or have ever had any of the conditions mentioned in the IMPORTANT WARNING section or asthma, especially if you also have frequent stuffed or runny nose or nasal polyps (swelling of the inside of the nose); heart failure; swelling of the hands, arms, feet, ankles, or lower legs; anemia (red blood cells do not bring enough oxygen to all parts of the body); or kidney disease. tell your doctor if you are pregnant, plan to become pregnant; or are breast-feeding. Naproxen may harm the fetus and cause problems with delivery if it is taken around 20 weeks or later during pregnancy. Do not take naproxen around or after 20 weeks of pregnancy, unless you are told to do so by your doctor. If you become pregnant while taking naproxen, call your doctor. you should know that this medication may temporarily decrease fertility in women. Talk to your doctor about the risks of taking naproxen if you have concerns about fertility. talk to your doctor about the risks and benefits of taking naproxen if you are 65 years of age or older. Older adults should usually take lower doses of naproxen for short periods of time because higher doses used regularly may not be more effective and are more likely to cause serious side effects. if you are having surgery, including dental surgery, tell the doctor or dentist that you are taking naproxen. What special dietary instructions should I follow? Unless your doctor tells you otherwise, continue your normal diet. What should I do if I forget a dose? Take the missed dose as soon as you remember it. However, if it is almost time for the next dose, skip the missed dose and continue your regular dosing schedule. Do not take a double dose to make up for a missed one. What side effects can this medication cause? Naproxen may cause side effects. Tell your doctor if any of these symptoms are severe or do not go away: constipation gas excessive thirst headache dizziness lightheadedness drowsiness difficulty falling asleep or staying asleep burning or tingling in the arms or legs cold symptoms ringing in the ears hearing problems Some side effects can be serious. If you experience any of the following symptoms, or those mentioned in the IMPORTANT WARNING section, call your doctor immediately. Do not take any more naproxen until you speak to your doctor: changes in vision feeling that the tablet is stuck in your throat unexplained weight gain shortness of breath or difficulty breathing swelling in the abdomen, ankles, feet, or legs sore throat, fever, chills, and other signs of infection blisters rash skin reddening itching hives swelling of the eyes, face, lips, tongue, throat, arms, or hands difficulty breathing or swallowing hoarseness excessive tiredness pain in the upper right part of the stomach nausea diarrhea yellowing of the skin or eyes flu-like symptoms bruises or purple blotches under the skin fast heartbeat cloudy, discolored, or bloody urine back pain difficult or painful urination decreased urination loss of appetite confusion Naproxen may cause other side effects. Call your doctor if you have any unusual problems while taking this medication. If you experience a serious side effect, you or your doctor may send a report to the Food and Drug Administration's (FDA) MedWatch Adverse Event Reporting program online ( http://www.fda.gov/Safety/MedWatch ) or by phone (1-800-332-1088). What should I know about storage and disposal of this medication? Keep this medication in the container it came in, tightly closed, and out of reach of children. Store it at room temperature and away from excess heat and moisture (not in the bathroom). It is important to keep all medication out of sight and reach of children as many containers (such as weekly pill minders and those for eye drops, creams, patches, and inhalers) are not child-resistant and young children can open them easily. To protect young children from poisoning, always lock safety caps and immediately place the medication in a safe location – one that is up and away and out of their sight and reach. http://www.upandaway.org Unneeded medications should be disposed of in special ways to ensure that pets, children, and other people cannot consume them. However, you should not flush this medication down the toilet. Instead, the best way to dispose of your medication is through a medicine take-back program. Talk to your pharmacist or contact your local garbage/recycling department to learn about take-back programs in your community. See the FDA's Safe Disposal of Medicines website ( http://goo.gl/c4Rm4p ) for more information if you do not have access to a take-back program. In case of emergency/overdose In case of overdose, call the poison control helpline at 1-800-222-1222. Information is also available online at https://www.poisonhelp.org/help . If the victim has collapsed, had a seizure, has trouble breathing, or can't be awakened, immediately call emergency services at 911. Symptoms of overdose may include the following: extreme tiredness drowsiness stomach pain heartburn nausea vomiting slow or difficult breathing What other information should I know? Before having any laboratory test, tell your doctor and the laboratory personnel that you are taking naproxen. If you are taking prescription naproxen, do not let anyone else take your medication. Ask your pharmacist any questions you have about refilling your prescription. It is important for you to keep a written list of all of the prescription and nonprescription (over-the-counter) medicines you are taking, as well as any products such as vitamins, minerals, or other dietary supplements. You should bring this list with you each time you visit a doctor or if you are admitted to a hospital. It is also important information to carry with you in case of emergencies. Brand names Aleve ® Anaprox ® Anaprox ® DS EC-Naprosyn ® Flanax ® Naprelan ® Naprosyn ®

















[ Hydrocodone Combination Products pronounced as (hye droe koe' done) To use the sharing features on this page, please enable JavaScript. Why is this medication prescribed? How should this medicine be used? Other uses for this medicine What special precautions should I follow? What special dietary instructions should I follow? What should I do if I forget a dose? What side effects can this medication cause? What should I know about storage and disposal of this medication? In case of emergency/overdose What other information should I know? Other names IMPORTANT WARNING: Hydrocodone combination products may be habit forming. Take your hydrocodone combination product exactly as directed. Do not take more of it, take it more often, or take it in a different way than directed by your doctor. While taking hydrocodone combination products, discuss with your healthcare provider your pain treatment goals, length of treatment, and other ways to manage your pain. Tell your doctor if you or anyone in your family drinks or has ever drunk large amounts of alcohol, uses or has ever used street drugs, or has overused prescription medications, or has had an overdose, or if you have or have ever had depression or another mental illness. There is a greater risk that you will overuse a hydrocodone combination product if you have or have ever had any of these conditions. Talk to your healthcare provider immediately and ask for guidance if you think that you have an opioid addiction or call the U.S. Substance Abuse and Mental Health Services Administration (SAMHSA) National Helpline at 1-800-662-HELP. Hydrocodone may cause serious or life-threatening breathing problems, especially during the first 24 to 72 hours of your treatment and any time your dose is increased. Your doctor will monitor you carefully during your treatment. Tell your doctor if you have or have ever had slowed breathing or asthma. Your doctor will probably tell you not to take a hydrocodone combination product. Also tell your doctor if you have or have ever had lung disease such as chronic obstructive pulmonary disease (COPD; a group of diseases that affect the lungs and airways), a head injury, a brain tumor, or any condition that increases the amount of pressure in your brain. The risk that you will develop breathing problems may be higher if you are an older adult or are weak or malnourished due to disease. If you experience any of the following symptoms, call your doctor immediately or get emergency medical treatment: slowed breathing, long pauses between breaths, or shortness of breath. When a hydrocodone combination product was used in children, serious and life-threatening breathing problems such as slow or difficulty breathing and deaths were reported. Hydrocodone should never be used to treat pain or a cough in children younger than 18 years of age. If your child is currently prescribed a cough and cold medicine containing hydrocodone, talk to your child's doctor about other treatments. Do not allow anyone else to take your medication. Hydrocodone combination products may harm or cause death to other people who take your medication, especially children. Keep hydrocodone combination products in a safe place so that no one else can take it accidentally or on purpose. Be especially careful to keep hydrocodone out of the reach of children. Keep track of how much hydrocodone combination product is left so you will know if any medication is missing.ª Taking certain medications with a hydrocodone combination product may increase the risk of serious or life-threatening breathing problems, sedation, or coma. Tell your doctor and pharmacist what prescription and nonprescription medications, vitamins, nutritional supplements, and herbal products you are taking or plan to take. Your doctor may need to change the dosages of your medications and will monitor you carefully. If you take a hydrocodone combination product with other medications and you develop any of the following symptoms, call your doctor immediately or seek emergency medical care: unusual dizziness, lightheadedness, extreme sleepiness, slowed or difficult breathing, or unresponsiveness. Be sure that your caregiver or family members know which symptoms may be serious so they can call the doctor or emergency medical care if you are unable to seek treatment on your own. Drinking alcohol, taking prescription or nonprescription medications that contain alcohol, or using street drugs during your treatment with a hydrocodone combination product increases the risk that you will experience these serious, life-threatening side effects. Do not drink alcohol, take prescription or nonprescription medications that contain alcohol, or use street drugs during your treatment. Tell your doctor if you are pregnant or plan to become pregnant. If you take a hydrocodone combination product regularly during your pregnancy, your baby may experience life-threatening withdrawal symptoms after birth. Tell your baby's doctor right away if your baby experiences any of the following symptoms: irritability, hyperactivity, abnormal sleep, high-pitched cry, uncontrollable shaking of a part of the body, vomiting, diarrhea, or failure to gain weight. Your doctor or pharmacist will give you the manufacturer's patient information sheet (Medication Guide) when you begin treatment with a hydrocodone combination product and each time you refill your prescription. Read the information carefully and ask your doctor or pharmacist if you have any questions. You can also visit the Food and Drug Administration (FDA) website ( http://www.fda.gov/Drugs/DrugSafety/ucm085729.htm ) or the manufacturer's website to obtain the Medication Guide. Talk to your doctor about the risks of taking a hydrocodone combination product. Why is this medication prescribed? Hydrocodone is available in combination with other ingredients, and different combination products are prescribed for different uses. Some hydrocodone combination products are used to relieve severe pain (pain that begins suddenly, has a specific cause, and is expected to go away when the cause of the pain is healed) in people who are expected to need an opioid pain medication and whose symptoms cannot be controlled by the use of alternative pain medications. Other hydrocodone combination products are used to relieve cough in adults. Hydrocodone is in a class of medications called opiate (narcotic) analgesics and in a class of medications called antitussives. Hydrocodone relieves pain by changing the way the brain and nervous system respond to pain. Hydrocodone relieves cough by decreasing activity in the part of the brain that causes coughing. You will take hydrocodone in combination with at least one other medication, but this monograph only provides information about hydrocodone. Be sure to read information about the other ingredients in the hydrocodone product you are taking. Ask your doctor or pharmacist if you have any questions. How should this medicine be used? Hydrocodone combination products come as a tablet, a syrup, a solution (clear liquid), and an extended-release (long-acting) suspension (liquid) to take by mouth. The tablet, syrup, and solution are usually taken every 4 to 6 hours as needed. The extended-release suspension is usually taken every 12 hours as needed. Follow the directions on your prescription label carefully, and ask your doctor or pharmacist to explain any part you do not understand. Shake the extended-release suspension well before each use to mix the medication evenly. Do not mix the extended-release suspension with other medications or with other liquids such as water. If you will be using hydrocodone combination solution, syrup, or extended-release suspension, do not use a household teaspoon to measure your dose. Household teaspoons are not accurate measuring devices, and you may receive too much medication or not enough medication if you measure your dose with a household teaspoon. Instead, use a properly marked measuring device such as a dropper, medicine spoon, or oral syringe. Ask your doctor or pharmacist if you need help getting or using a measuring device. Your doctor may adjust your dose of hydrocodone during your treatment, depending on how well your pain is controlled and on the side effects that you experience. Talk to your doctor about how you are feeling during your treatment with a hydrocodone combination product. Tell your doctor if you feel that your pain is not controlled or if your pain increases, becomes worse, or if you have new pain or an increased sensitivity to pain during your treatment with a hydrocodone combination product. Do not take more of it or take it more often than prescribed by your doctor. You may receive a dangerous overdose if you take more medication or take your medication more often than prescribed by your doctor. Do not stop taking a hydrocodone combination product without talking to your doctor. If you suddenly stop taking a hydrocodone combination product, you may experience withdrawal symptoms such as restlessness, teary eyes, runny nose, yawning, sweating, chills, muscle pain, widened pupils (black circles in the middle of the eyes), irritability, anxiety, back or joint pain, weakness, stomach cramps, difficulty falling asleep or staying asleep, nausea, loss of appetite, vomiting, diarrhea, fast breathing, or fast heartbeat. Your doctor will probably decrease your dose gradually. Other uses for this medicine This medication may be prescribed for other uses; ask your doctor or pharmacist for more information. What special precautions should I follow? Before taking a hydrocodone combination product, tell your doctor and pharmacist if you are allergic to hydrocodone, the other medication in the hydrocodone combination product you are taking, any other medications, or any of the ingredients in the hydrocodone combination product you are taking. Ask your pharmacist or check the manufacturer's information for the patient for a list of the ingredients. tell your doctor or pharmacist if you are taking the following medications or have stopped taking them within the past two weeks: isocarboxazid (Marplan), linezolid (Zyvox), methylene blue, phenelzine (Nardil), selegiline (Emsam, Zelapar), or tranylcypromine (Parnate). The following nonprescription or herbal products may interact with hydrocodone combination products: St. John's wort and tryptophan. Be sure to let your doctor and pharmacist know that you are taking these medications before you start taking a hydrocodone combination product. Do not start these medications while taking a hydrocodone combination product without discussing it with your healthcare provider. tell your doctor if you have or have ever had any of the conditions mentioned in the IMPORTANT WARNING section, a blockage or narrowing of your stomach or intestines, or paralytic ileus (condition in which digested food does not move through the intestines). Your doctor may tell you not to take a hydrocodone combination product. tell your doctor if you have or have ever had difficulty urinating; adrenal insufficiency (condition in which the adrenal glands do not produce enough of certain hormones needed for important body functions); diabetes; seizures; or thyroid, intestinal, liver, pancreas, gallbladder, or kidney disease. tell your doctor if you are breastfeeding. You should not breastfeed while you are taking a hydrocodone combination product. Hydrocodone combination products can cause shallow breathing, difficulty or noisy breathing, confusion, more than usual sleepiness, trouble breastfeeding, or limpness in breastfed infants. you should know that this medication may decrease fertility in men and women. Talk to your doctor about the risks of taking a hydrocodone combination product. if you are having surgery, including dental surgery, tell the doctor or dentist that you are taking a hydrocodone combination product. you should know that hydrocodone combination products may make you drowsy. Do not drive a car or operate machinery until you know how this medication affects you. you should know that hydrocodone combination products may cause dizziness, lightheadedness, and fainting when you get up too quickly from a lying position. This is more common when you first start taking a hydrocodone combination product. To avoid this problem, get out of bed slowly, resting your feet on the floor for a few minutes before standing up. you should know that hydrocodone combination products may cause constipation. Talk to your doctor about changing your diet and using other medications to treat or prevent constipation. What special dietary instructions should I follow? Unless your doctor tells you otherwise, continue your normal diet. What should I do if I forget a dose? This medication is usually taken as needed. If your doctor has told you to take a hydrocodone combination product regularly, skip the missed dose and continue your regular dosing schedule. Do not take a double dose to make up for a missed one. What side effects can this medication cause? Hydrocodone combination products may cause side effects. Tell your doctor if any of these symptoms are severe or do not go away: stomach pain headache drowsiness lightheadedness fuzzy thinking anxiety abnormally happy or abnormally sad mood dry mouth Some side effects can be serious. If you experience any of these symptoms or those listed in the IMPORTANT WARNING section, call your doctor immediately or get emergency medical treatment: slowed or irregular breathing agitation, hallucinations (seeing things or hearing voices that do not exist), fever, sweating, confusion, fast heartbeat, shivering, severe muscle stiffness or twitching, loss of coordination, or diarrhea nausea, vomiting, loss of appetite, weakness, or dizziness inability to get or keep an erection irregular menstruation decreased sexual desire chest pain fast heartbeat rash; hives; hoarseness; difficulty breathing or swallowing; or swelling of the face, mouth, tongue or throat difficulty urinating Hydrocodone combination products may cause other side effects. Call your doctor if you have any unusual problems while taking this medication. If you experience a serious side effect, you or your doctor may send a report to the Food and Drug Administration's (FDA) MedWatch Adverse Event Reporting program online ( http://www.fda.gov/Safety/MedWatch ) or by phone (1-800-332-1088). What should I know about storage and disposal of this medication? Keep this medication in the container it came in, tightly closed, and out of reach of children, and in a location that is not easily accessible by others, including visitors to the home. Store it at room temperature and away from excess heat and moisture (not in the bathroom). You must immediately dispose of any medication that is outdated or no longer needed through a medicine take-back program. If you do not have a take-back program nearby or one that you can access promptly, flush any hydrocodone combination products that are outdated or no longer needed down the toilet so that others will not take it. Talk to your pharmacist about the proper disposal of your medication. It is important to keep all medication out of sight and reach of children as many containers (such as weekly pill minders and those for eye drops, creams, patches, and inhalers) are not child-resistant and young children can open them easily. To protect young children from poisoning, always lock safety caps and immediately place the medication in a safe location – one that is up and away and out of their sight and reach. http://www.upandaway.org In case of emergency/overdose In case of overdose, call the poison control helpline at 1-800-222-1222. Information is also available online at https://www.poisonhelp.org/help . If the victim has collapsed, had a seizure, has trouble breathing, or can't be awakened, immediately call emergency services at 911. While taking a hydrocodone combination product, you should talk to your doctor about having a rescue medication called naloxone readily available (e.g., home, office). Naloxone is used to reverse the life-threatening effects of an overdose. It works by blocking the effects of opiates to relieve dangerous symptoms caused by high levels of opiates in the blood. Your doctor may also prescribe you naloxone if you are living in a household where there are small children or someone who has abused street or prescription drugs. You should make sure that you and your family members, caregivers, or the people who spend time with you know how to recognize an overdose, how to use naloxone, and what to do until emergency medical help arrives. Your doctor or pharmacist will show you and your family members how to use the medication. Ask your pharmacist for the instructions or visit the manufacturer's website to get the instructions. If symptoms of an overdose occur, a friend or family member should give the first dose of naloxone, call 911 immediately, and stay with you and watch you closely until emergency medical help arrives. Your symptoms may return within a few minutes after you receive naloxone. If your symptoms return, the person should give you another dose of naloxone. Additional doses may be given every 2 to 3 minutes, if symptoms return before medical help arrives. Symptoms of overdose may include the following: narrowed or widened pupils (dark circles in the middle of the eyes) slow, shallow, or stopped breathing difficulty breathing slowed or stopped heartbeat cold, clammy, or blue skin excessive sleepiness unable to respond or wake up unusual snoring What other information should I know? Keep all appointments with your doctor and laboratory. Your doctor will order certain lab tests to check your body's response to a hydrocodone combination product. Before having any laboratory test (especially those that involve methylene blue), tell your doctor and the laboratory personnel that you are taking a hydrocodone combination product. This prescription is not refillable. If you continue to have pain or a cough after you finish taking your medication, call your doctor. It is important for you to keep a written list of all of the prescription and nonprescription (over-the-counter) medicines you are taking, as well as any products such as vitamins, minerals, or other dietary supplements. You should bring this list with you each time you visit a doctor or if you are admitted to a hospital. It is also important information to carry with you in case of emergencies.

[ Estrogen and Progestin (Hormone Replacement Therapy) pronounced as (ess' troe jen) (pro jes' tin) To use the sharing features on this page, please enable JavaScript. Why is this medication prescribed? How should this medicine be used? Other uses for this medicine What special precautions should I follow? What special dietary instructions should I follow? What should I do if I forget a dose? What side effects can this medication cause? What should I know about storage and disposal of this medication? In case of emergency/overdose What other information should I know? Brand names Other names IMPORTANT WARNING: Hormone replacement therapy may increase the risk of heart attack, stroke, breast cancer, and blood clots in the lungs and legs. Tell your doctor if you smoke and if you have or have ever had breast lumps or cancer; a heart attack; a stroke; blood clots; high blood pressure; high blood levels of cholesterol or fats; or diabetes. If you are having surgery or will be on bedrest, talk to your doctor about stopping estrogen and progestin at least 4 to 6 weeks before the surgery or bedrest. If you experience any of the following side effects, call your doctor immediately: sudden, severe headache; sudden, severe vomiting; sudden partial or complete loss of vision; speech problems; dizziness or faintness; weakness or numbness of an arm or a leg; crushing chest pain or chest heaviness; coughing up blood; sudden shortness of breath; or calf pain. Talk to your doctor about the risks and benefits of taking estrogen and progestin. Why is this medication prescribed? Combinations of estrogen and progestin are used to treat certain symptoms of menopause. Estrogen and progestin are two female sex hormones. Hormone replacement therapy works by replacing estrogen hormone that is no longer being made by the body. Estrogen reduces feelings of warmth in the upper body and periods of sweating and heat (hot flashes), vaginal symptoms (itching, burning, and dryness) and difficulty with urination, but it does not relieve other symptoms of menopause such as nervousness or depression. Estrogen also prevents thinning of the bones (osteoporosis) in menopausal women. Progestin is added to estrogen in hormone replacement therapy to reduce the risk of uterine cancer in women who still have their uterus. How should this medicine be used? Hormone replacement therapy comes as a tablet to take by mouth. It is usually taken once a day. To help you remember to take hormone replacement therapy, take it around the same time every day. Follow the directions on your prescription label carefully, and ask your doctor or pharmacist to explain any part you do not understand. Take this medication exactly as directed. Do not take more or less of it or take it more often than prescribed by your doctor. Do not stop taking this medication without talking to your doctor. Activella, FemHrt, and Prempro come as tablets containing estrogen and progestin. Take one tablet every day. Ortho-Prefest comes in a blister card containing 30 tablets. Take one pink tablet (containing only estrogen) once daily for 3 days, then take one white tablet (containing estrogen and progestin) once daily for 3 days. Repeat this process until you finish all the tablets on the card. Begin a new blister card the day after you finish the last one. Premphase comes in a dispenser containing 28 tablets. Take one maroon tablet (containing only estrogen) once daily on days 1 to 14, and take one light-blue tablet (containing estrogen and progestin) once daily on days 15 to 28. Begin a new dispenser the day after you finish the last one. Before taking hormone replacement therapy, ask your pharmacist or doctor for a copy of the manufacturer's information for the patient and read it carefully. Other uses for this medicine This medication may be prescribed for other uses; ask your doctor or pharmacist for more information. What special precautions should I follow? Before taking hormone replacement therapy, tell your doctor and pharmacist if you are allergic to estrogen, progestin, or any other medications. Tell your doctor and pharmacist what prescription and nonprescription medications, vitamins, nutritional supplements, and herbal products you are taking or plan to take while taking hormone replacement therapy. Your doctor may need to change the doses of your medications or monitor you carefully for side effects. in addition to the conditions listed in the IMPORTANT WARNING section, tell your doctor if you have had a hysterectomy and if you have or have ever had asthma; toxemia (high blood pressure during pregnancy); depression; epilepsy (seizures); migraine headaches; liver, heart, gallbladder, or kidney disease; jaundice (yellowing of the skin or eyes); vaginal bleeding between menstrual periods; and excessive weight gain and fluid retention (bloating) during the menstrual cycle. tell your doctor if you are pregnant, plan to become pregnant, or are breast-feeding. If you become pregnant while taking this medication, call your doctor immediately. Estrogen and progestin may harm the fetus. if you are having surgery, including dental surgery, tell the doctor or dentist you are taking hormone replacement therapy. tell your doctor if you smoke cigarettes. Smoking while taking this medication may increase your risk of serious side effects such as blood clots and stroke. Smoking also may decrease the effectiveness of this medication. tell your doctor and pharmacist if you wear contact lenses. If you notice changes in vision or ability to wear your lenses while taking hormone replacement therapy, see an eye doctor. What special dietary instructions should I follow? Ask your doctor about taking calcium supplements if you are taking this medication for prevention of osteoporosis. Follow all dietary and exercise recommendations, as both can help prevent bone disease. What should I do if I forget a dose? Take the missed dose as soon as you remember it. However, if it is almost time for the next dose, skip the missed dose and continue your regular dosing schedule. Do not take a double dose to make up for a missed one. What side effects can this medication cause? Hormone replacement therapy may cause side effects. Tell your doctor if any of these symptoms are severe or do not go away: headache upset stomach vomiting stomach cramps or bloating diarrhea appetite and weight changes changes in sex drive or ability nervousness brown or black skin patches acne swelling of hands, feet, or lower legs (fluid retention) bleeding or spotting between menstrual periods changes in menstrual flow breast tenderness, enlargement, or discharge difficulty wearing contact lenses Some side effects can be serious. The following symptoms are uncommon, but if you experience any of them or those listed in the IMPORTANT WARNING section, call your doctor immediately: double vision severe abdominal pain yellowing of the skin or eyes severe mental depression unusual bleeding loss of appetite rash extreme tiredness, weakness, or lack of energy fever dark-colored urine light-colored stool Hormone replacement therapy may increase the risk of developing endometrial cancer and gallbladder disease. Talk to your doctor about the risks of taking this medication. Hormone replacement therapy may cause other side effects. Call your doctor if you have any unusual problems while taking this medication. If you experience a serious side effect, you or your doctor may send a report to the Food and Drug Administration's (FDA) MedWatch Adverse Event Reporting program online ( http://www.fda.gov/Safety/MedWatch ) or by phone (1-800-332-1088). What should I know about storage and disposal of this medication? Keep this medication in the container it came in, tightly closed, and out of reach of children. Store it at room temperature and away from heat and moisture (not in the bathroom). Unneeded medications should be disposed of in special ways to ensure that pets, children, and other people cannot consume them. However, you should not flush this medication down the toilet. Instead, the best way to dispose of your medication is through a medicine take-back program. Talk to your pharmacist or contact your local garbage/recycling department to learn about take-back programs in your community. See the FDA's Safe Disposal of Medicines website ( http://goo.gl/c4Rm4p ) for more information if you do not have access to a take-back program. It is important to keep all medication out of sight and reach of children as many containers (such as weekly pill minders and those for eye drops, creams, patches, and inhalers) are not child-resistant and young children can open them easily. To protect young children from poisoning, always lock safety caps and immediately place the medication in a safe location – one that is up and away and out of their sight and reach. http://www.upandaway.org In case of emergency/overdose In case of overdose, call the poison control helpline at 1-800-222-1222. Information is also available online at https://www.poisonhelp.org/help . If the victim has collapsed, had a seizure, has trouble breathing, or can't be awakened, immediately call emergency services at 911. Symptoms of overdose may include: upset stomach vomiting What other information should I know? Keep all appointments with your doctor and the laboratory. You should have a complete physical exam, including blood pressure measurements, breast and pelvic exams, and a Pap test at least yearly. Follow your doctor's directions for examining your breasts; report any lumps immediately. If you are taking hormone replacement therapy to treat symptoms of menopause, your doctor will check every 3 to 6 months to see if you still need this medication. If you are taking this medication to prevent thinning of the bones (osteoporosis), you will take it for a longer period of time. Before you have any laboratory tests, tell the laboratory personnel that you take hormone replacement therapy, because this medication may interfere with some laboratory tests. Do not let anyone else take your medication. Ask your pharmacist any questions you have about refilling your prescription. It is important for you to keep a written list of all of the prescription and nonprescription (over-the-counter) medicines you are taking, as well as any products such as vitamins, minerals, or other dietary supplements. You should bring this list with you each time you visit a doctor or if you are admitted to a hospital. It is also important information to carry with you in case of emergencies. Brand names Bijuva ® (as a combination product containing Estradiol, Progesterone)







[ Estrogen and Progestin (Vaginal Ring Contraceptives) pronounced as (ess' troe jen) and (pro jes' tin) To use the sharing features on this page, please enable JavaScript. Why is this medication prescribed? How should this medicine be used? Other uses for this medicine What special precautions should I follow? What special dietary instructions should I follow? What should I do if I forget a dose? What side effects can this medication cause? What should I know about storage and disposal of this medication? In case of emergency/overdose What other information should I know? Other names IMPORTANT WARNING: Cigarette smoking increases the risk of serious side effects from estrogen and progestin vaginal ring, including heart attacks, blood clots, and strokes. This risk is higher for women over 35 years of age and heavy smokers (15 or more cigarettes per day). If you use estrogen and progestin, you should not smoke. Why is this medication prescribed? Estrogen and progestin vaginal ring contraceptives are used to prevent pregnancy. Estrogen (ethinyl estradiol) and progestin (etonogestrel or segesterone) are two female sex hormones. Estrogen and progestin are in a class of medications called combination hormonal contraceptives (birth control medications). Combinations of estrogen and progestin work by preventing ovulation (the release of eggs from the ovaries). They also change the lining of the uterus (womb) to prevent pregnancy from developing and change the mucus at the cervix (opening of the uterus) to prevent sperm (male reproductive cells) from entering. Contraceptive vaginal rings are a very effective method of birth control, but they do not prevent the spread of human immunodeficiency virus (HIV, the virus that causes acquired immunodeficiency syndrome [AIDS]) and other sexually transmitted diseases. How should this medicine be used? Estrogen and progestin vaginal ring contraceptives come as a flexible ring to place in the vagina. The estrogen and progestin vaginal ring contraceptives are usually placed in the vagina and left in place for 3 weeks. After 3 weeks using the vaginal ring, remove the ring for a 1-week break. After using the Annovera ® vaginal ring for 3 weeks, clean it with mild soap and warm water, pat it dry with a clean cloth or paper towel, and then place it in the provided case during the 1 week break. After using the NuvaRing ® vaginal ring for 3 weeks, you may dispose of it and insert a new vaginal ring after the 1 week break. Be sure to insert your vaginal ring at the end of the 1-week break on the same day and at the same time that you usually insert or remove the ring, even if you have not stopped bleeding. Follow the directions on your prescription label carefully, and ask your doctor or pharmacist to explain any part you do not understand. Use the contraceptive ring exactly as directed. Never use more than one contraceptive ring at a time and always insert and remove the ring according to the schedule your doctor gives you. Contraceptive vaginal rings come in different brands. Different brands of contraceptive rings contain slightly different medications or doses, are used in slightly different ways, and have different risks and benefits. Be sure that you know which brand of contraceptive vaginal ring you are using and exactly how you should use it. Ask your doctor or pharmacist for a copy of the manufacturer's information for the patient and read it carefully. Your doctor will tell you when you should insert your first contraceptive vaginal ring. This depends on whether you were using another type of birth control in the past month, were not using birth control, or have recently given birth or had an abortion or miscarriage. In some cases, you may need to use an additional method of birth control for the first 7 days that you use the contraceptive ring. Your doctor will tell you whether you need to use backup birth control and will help you choose a method, such as male condoms and/or spermicides. You should not use a diaphragm, cervical cap, or a female condom when a contraceptive ring is in place. If you are using the NuvaRing ® vaginal ring, insert a new ring after the 1-week break; repeat the cycle of 3 weeks of use with a 1-week break, using a new vaginal ring for each cycle. If you are using the Annovera ® vaginal ring, re-insert the clean vaginal ring after the 1-week break; repeat the cycle of 3 weeks of use with a 1-week break for up to 13 cycles. The contraceptive ring will usually stay in your vagina until you remove it. It may sometimes slip out when you are removing a tampon, during intercourse, or having a bowel movement. Call your doctor if your contraceptive ring slips out often. If your NuvaRing ® contraceptive ring slips out, you should rinse it with cool or lukewarm (not hot) water and try to replace it within 3 hours. However, if your NuvaRing ® contraceptive ring slips out and it is broken, discard it and replace it with a new vaginal ring. If your ring falls out and gets lost, you should replace it with a new ring and remove the new ring at the same time you were scheduled to remove the ring that was lost. If you do not replace your NuvaRing ® vaginal ring within the appropriate time, you must use a non-hormonal backup method of birth control (e.g., condoms with spermicide) until you have had the ring in place for 7 days in a row. If your Annovera ® contraceptive vaginal ring falls out, wash it with mild soap and warm water, rinse and pat dry with a clean cloth towel or paper towel, and try to replace it within 2 hours. If your vaginal ring is out of place for more than a total of 2 hours over the cycle of 3 weeks that the vaginal ring is to be inserted (e.g., from falling out one time or several times), you must use a non-hormonal backup method of birth control (e.g., condoms with spermicide) until you have had the ring in place for 7 days in a row. Regularly check for the presence of the vaginal ring in the vagina before and after intercourse. Contraceptive vaginal rings will work only as long as they are used regularly. Do not stop using contraceptive vaginal rings without talking to your doctor. Other uses for this medicine This medication may be prescribed for other uses; ask your doctor or pharmacist for more information. What special precautions should I follow? Before using the estrogen and progestin vaginal ring, tell your doctor and pharmacist if you are allergic to etonogestrel, segesterone, ethinyl estradiol, any other medications, or any of the ingredients in the estrogen and progestin vaginal ring. Ask your pharmacist for a list of the ingredients in the estrogen and progestin vaginal ring. tell your doctor if you are taking the combination of ombitasvir, paritaprevir, and ritonavir (Technivie) with or without dasabuvir (in Viekira Pak). Your doctor will probably tell you not to use estrogen and progestin vaginal ring if you are taking one or more of these medications. tell your doctor and pharmacist what other prescription and nonprescription medications, vitamins, and nutritional supplements you are taking. Be sure to mention any of the following: acetaminophen (Tylenol, others); antifungals such as fluconazole (Diflucan), griseofulvin (Gris-Peg), itraconazole (Onmel, Sporanox), ketoconazole (Nizoral), miconazole (Oravig), and voriconazole (Vfend); aprepitant (Emend); ascorbic acid (vitamin C); atorvastatin (Lipitor); barbiturates; boceprevir (Victrelis; no longer available in U.S.); bosentan (Tracleer); clofibric acid; cyclosporine (Gengraf, Neoral, Sandimmune); medications for HIV or AIDS such as atazanavir (Reyataz), darunavir (Prezista) with ritonavir (Norvir), delavirdine (Rescriptor), efavirenz (Sustiva), etravirine (Intelence), indinavir (Crixivan), lopinavir (Kaletra), nelfinavir (Viracept), nevirapine (Viramune), ritonavir (Norvir), saquinavir (Invirase), and tipranavir (Aptivus); morphine (Astramorph, Kadian, others); prednisolone (Orapred); rifabutin (Mycobutin); rifampin (Rifadin, Rimactane), rufinamide (Banzel); medications for seizures such as carbamazepine (Tegretol, Teril, others), felbamate (Felbatol), lamotrigine (Lamictal), oxcarbazepine (Trileptal), phenobarbital, phenytoin (Dilantin, Phenytek), and topiramate (Topamax); telaprevir (Incivek; no longer available in U.S); temazepam (Restoril); theophylline (Elixophyllin, Theo-24, others); thyroid hormone; and tizanidine (Zanaflex). Your doctor may need to change the doses of your medications or monitor you carefully for side effects. You may need to use an extra method of birth control if you take some of these medications while you are using the contraceptive ring. tell your doctor what herbal products you are taking, especially products containing St. John's wort. tell your doctor if you have or have ever had breast cancer or any other cancer; cerebrovascular disease (clogging or weakening of the blood vessels within the brain or leading to the brain); a stroke or mini-stroke; coronary artery disease (clogged blood vessels leading to the heart); chest pain; a heart attack; blood clots in your legs or lungs; high cholesterol or triglycerides; high blood pressure; atrial fibrillation; an irregular heartbeat; any condition that affects your heart valves (flaps of tissue that open and close to control blood flow in the heart); diabetes and are over 35 years old; diabetes with high blood pressure or problems with your kidneys, blood vessels, eyes, or nerves; diabetes for longer than 20 years; diabetes that has affected your circulation; headaches that come along with other symptoms such as vision changes, weakness, and dizziness; migraines (if you are over 35 years old); liver tumors or liver disease; bleeding or blood clotting problems; unexplained vaginal bleeding; or hepatitis or other types of liver disease. Your doctor will probably tell you not to use an estrogen and progestin vaginal ring. tell your doctor if you have recently had a baby, a miscarriage, or an abortion. Also, tell your doctor if you have or have ever had jaundice (yellowing of skin or eyes); breast problems such as an abnormal mammogram or breast x-ray, breast nodules, fibrocystic breast disease; a family history of breast cancer; seizures; depression; melasma (brown patches on the face); bladder, uterus or rectum that has dropped or bulged into the vagina; any condition that makes your vagina more likely to become irritated; toxic shock syndrome (bacterial infection); hereditary angioedema (inherited condition that causes episodes of swelling in the hands, feet, face, airway, or intestines); or kidney, thyroid, or gallbladder disease. tell your doctor if you are pregnant or plan to become pregnant. If you become pregnant while using estrogen and progestin vaginal ring, call your doctor immediately. You should suspect that you are pregnant and call your doctor if you have used the contraceptive ring correctly and you miss two periods in a row, or if you have not used the contraceptive ring according to the directions and you miss one period. You should not breast-feed while you are using the contraceptive ring. if you are having surgery, tell the doctor that you are using an estrogen and progestin vaginal ring. Your doctor may ask you to stop using the vaginal ring at least 4 weeks before and for up to 2 weeks after certain surgeries. What special dietary instructions should I follow? Talk to your doctor about drinking grapefruit juice while using this medication. What should I do if I forget a dose? Every brand of contraceptive vaginal ring has specific directions to follow as to when to remove and/or insert the contraceptive ring. Carefully read the directions in the manufacturer's information for the patient that came with your contraceptive ring. If you do not insert the vaginal ring according to instructions or miss a dose, you will need to use a back-up method of birth control. Do not use more than one vaginal ring at a time. If you have any questions, call your doctor or pharmacist. What side effects can this medication cause? Estrogen and progestin vaginal ring may cause side effects. Tell your doctor if any of these symptoms are severe or do not go away: swelling, redness, irritation, burning, itching, or infection of the vagina white or yellow vaginal discharge vaginal bleeding or spotting when it is not time for your period unusual breast tenderness headache nausea vomiting diarrhea weight gain or loss breast pain, tenderness, or discomfort vaginal discomfort or foreign body sensation stomach pain acne changes in sexual desire Some side effects can be serious. The following symptoms are uncommon, but if you experience any of them call your doctor immediately: pain in the back of the lower leg sharp, sudden, or crushing chest pain heaviness in chest sudden shortness of breath sudden severe headache, vomiting, dizziness, or fainting sudden problems with speech weakness or numbness of an arm or leg double vision, blurred vision, or other changes in vision dark patches of skin on forehead, cheeks, upper lip, and/or chin yellowing of skin or eyes; loss of appetite; dark urine; extreme tiredness; weakness; or light-colored bowel movements sudden high fever, vomiting, diarrhea, fainting or feeling faint when standing up, rash, muscle aches, or dizziness depression; difficulty sleeping or staying asleep; loss of energy; or other mood changes rash; swelling of the hands, feet, ankles, or lower legs; hives; or itching Estrogen and progestin vaginal ring may increase the chance that you will develop liver tumors. These tumors are not a form of cancer, but they can break and cause serious bleeding inside the body. Talk to your doctor about the risks of using the contraceptive ring. Estrogen and progestin vaginal ring may cause other side effects. Call your doctor if you have any unusual problems while using this medication. If you experience a serious side effect, you or your doctor may send a report to the Food and Drug Administration's (FDA) MedWatch Adverse Event Reporting program online ( http://www.fda.gov/Safety/MedWatch ) or by phone (1-800-332-1088). What should I know about storage and disposal of this medication? Keep this medication in the container it came in, tightly closed, and out of reach of children. Store it at room temperature and away from direct sunlight, excess heat and moisture (not in the bathroom). Do not refrigerate or freeze it. Discard the NuvaRing ® after the expiration date if not used in the provided sachet (foil pouch) and then into a trash can. Do not flush the vaginal ring down the toilet. It is important to keep all medication out of sight and reach of children as many containers (such as weekly pill minders and those for eye drops, creams, patches, and inhalers) are not child-resistant and young children can open them easily. To protect young children from poisoning, always lock safety caps and immediately place the medication in a safe location – one that is up and away and out of their sight and reach. http://www.upandaway.org Unneeded medications should be disposed of in special ways to ensure that pets, children, and other people cannot consume them. However, you should not flush this medication down the toilet. Instead, the best way to dispose of your medication is through a medicine take-back program. Talk to your pharmacist or contact your local garbage/recycling department to learn about take-back programs in your community. See the FDA's Safe Disposal of Medicines website ( http://goo.gl/c4Rm4p ) for more information if you do not have access to a take-back program. In case of emergency/overdose Symptoms of overdose may include: bleeding nausea vomiting What other information should I know? Keep all appointments with your doctor and the laboratory. Follow your doctor's directions for examining your breasts; report any lumps immediately. Before having any laboratory test, tell your doctor and the laboratory personnel that you are using estrogen and progestin vaginal ring. Do not use oil-based (including silicone-based) vaginal lubricants with the Annovera ® vaginal ring. Do not let anyone else use your medication. Ask your pharmacist any questions you have about refilling your prescription. It is important for you to keep a written list of all of the prescription and nonprescription (over-the-counter) medicines you are taking, as well as any products such as vitamins, minerals, or other dietary supplements. You should bring this list with you each time you visit a doctor or if you are admitted to a hospital. It is also important information to carry with you in case of emergencies.

[ Acetaminophen, Butalbital, and Caffeine pronounced as (a set a mee' noe fen) (byoo tal' bi tal) (kaf' een) To use the sharing features on this page, please enable JavaScript. Why is this medication prescribed? How should this medicine be used? Other uses for this medicine What special precautions should I follow? What special dietary instructions should I follow? What should I do if I forget a dose? What side effects can this medication cause? What should I know about storage and disposal of this medication? In case of emergency/overdose What other information should I know? Brand names IMPORTANT WARNING: Taking too much acetaminophen (found in this combination preparation) can cause liver damage, sometimes serious enough to require liver transplantation or cause death. Be aware that you should not take more than 4,000 mg of acetaminophen per day. You might accidentally take too much acetaminophen if you do not follow the directions on the prescription or package label carefully, or if you take more than one product that contains acetaminophen. If you need to take more than one product that contains acetaminophen, it may be difficult for you to calculate the total amount of acetaminophen you are taking. Ask your doctor or pharmacist to help you. Tell your doctor if you have or have ever had liver disease. Why is this medication prescribed? Acetaminophen, butalbital, and caffeine is used to relieve tension headaches. Acetaminophen is in a class of medications called analgesics (pain relievers). It works by changing the way the body senses pain. Butalbital is in a class of medications called barbiturates. It works by having a relaxing effect on the brain and central nervous system (CNS). Caffeine is a CNS stimulant. It works by changing the amounts of certain natural substances in the brain. How should this medicine be used? The combination of acetaminophen, butalbital, and caffeine comes as a capsule and tablet to take by mouth. It usually is taken every 4 hours as needed. Follow the directions on your prescription label carefully, and ask your doctor or pharmacist to explain any part you do not understand. Take acetaminophen, butalbital, and caffeine exactly as directed. Do not take more than six tablets or capsules in 1 day. If you think that you need more to relieve your symptoms, call your doctor. This medication can be habit-forming. Do not take a larger dose, take it more often, or for a longer period of time than prescribed by your doctor. Other uses for this medicine This medication may be prescribed for other uses; ask your doctor or pharmacist for more information. What special precautions should I follow? Before taking acetaminophen, butalbital, and caffeine, tell your doctor and pharmacist if you are allergic to acetaminophen, butalbital, caffeine, any other drugs, or any ingredient in acetaminophen, butalbital, and caffeine capsules or tablets. Ask your pharmacist for a list of the ingredients. tell your doctor and pharmacist what prescription and nonprescription medications, vitamins, nutritional supplements, and herbal products you are taking or plan to take while taking acetaminophen, butalbital, and caffeine. Your doctor may need to change the doses of your medications or monitor you carefully for side effects. tell your doctor or pharmacist if you are taking the following medications or have stopped taking them within the past two weeks: isocarboxazid (Marplan), linezolid (Zyvox), methylene blue, phenelzine (Nardil), selegiline (Emsam, Zelapar), and tranylcypromine (Parnate). tell your doctor if you have porphyria. Your doctor will probably tell you not to take acetaminophen, butalbital, and caffeine. tell your doctor if you have or have ever had stomach or kidney problems. tell your doctor if you are pregnant, plan to become pregnant, or are breast-feeding. If you become pregnant while taking acetaminophen, butalbital, and caffeine, call your doctor. you should know that this drug may make you drowsy. Do not drive a car or operate machinery until you know how this drug affects you. ask your doctor about the safe use of alcoholic beverages while you are taking acetaminophen, butalbital, and caffeine. Alcohol can make the side effects from acetaminophen, butalbital, and caffeine worse. What special dietary instructions should I follow? Unless your doctor tells you otherwise, continue your normal diet. What should I do if I forget a dose? This medication is usually taken as needed. If your doctor has told you to take acetaminophen, butalbital, and caffeine regularly, take the missed dose as soon as you remember it. However, if it is almost time for the next dose, skip the missed dose and continue your regular dosing schedule. Do not take a double dose to make up for a missed one. What side effects can this medication cause? Acetaminophen, butalbital, and caffeine may cause side effects. Tell your doctor if any of these symptoms are severe or do not go away: drowsiness nausea vomiting stomach pain lightheadedness dizziness confusion If you experience any of the following symptoms, call your doctor immediately: rash hives itching peeling, blistering skin difficulty breathing or swallowing swelling of the face, throat, tongue, lips, or eyes If you experience a serious side effect, you or your doctor may send a report to the Food and Drug Administration's (FDA) MedWatch Adverse Event Reporting program online ( http://www.fda.gov/Safety/MedWatch ) or by phone (1-800-332-1088). What should I know about storage and disposal of this medication? Keep this medication in the container it came in, tightly closed, and out of reach of children. Store it at room temperature, away from excess heat and moisture (not in the bathroom). Unneeded medications should be disposed of in special ways to ensure that pets, children, and other people cannot consume them. However, you should not flush this medication down the toilet. Instead, the best way to dispose of your medication is through a medicine take-back program. Talk to your pharmacist or contact your local garbage/recycling department to learn about take-back programs in your community. See the FDA's Safe Disposal of Medicines website ( http://goo.gl/c4Rm4p ) for more information if you do not have access to a take-back program. It is important to keep all medication out of sight and reach of children as many containers (such as weekly pill minders and those for eye drops, creams, patches, and inhalers) are not child-resistant and young children can open them easily. To protect young children from poisoning, always lock safety caps and immediately place the medication in a safe location – one that is up and away and out of their sight and reach. http://www.upandaway.org In case of emergency/overdose In case of overdose, call the poison control helpline at 1-800-222-1222. Information is also available online at https://www.poisonhelp.org/help . If the victim has collapsed, had a seizure, has trouble breathing, or can't be awakened, immediately call emergency services at 911. Symptoms of overdose may include the following: drowsiness confusion coma irregular or slowed breathing nausea vomiting loss of appetite unusual bleeding or bruising sweating pain in upper right part of the stomach yellowing of the skin or eyes difficulty falling asleep or staying asleep restlessness rapid or pounding heartbeat tremor confusion What other information should I know? Keep all appointments with your doctor. Before having any laboratory test, tell your doctor and the laboratory personnel that you are taking acetaminophen, butalbital, and caffeine. Do not let anyone else take your medication. This medication is a controlled substance. Prescriptions may be refilled only a limited number of times; ask your pharmacist if you have any questions. It is important for you to keep a written list of all of the prescription and nonprescription (over-the-counter) medicines you are taking, as well as any products such as vitamins, minerals, or other dietary supplements. You should bring this list with you each time you visit a doctor or if you are admitted to a hospital. It is also important information to carry with you in case of emergencies. Brand names Anoquan ® ¶ Esgic ® ¶ Femcet ® ¶ Fioricet ® ¶ Medigesic Plus ® ¶ Triad ® ¶

[ Umeclidinium and Vilanterol Oral Inhalation pronounced as (ue me'' kli din' ee um) and (vye lan' ter ol ) To use the sharing features on this page, please enable JavaScript. Why is this medication prescribed? How should this medicine be used? Other uses for this medicine What special precautions should I follow? What special dietary instructions should I follow? What should I do if I forget a dose? What side effects can this medication cause? What should I know about storage and disposal of this medication? In case of emergency/overdose What other information should I know? Why is this medication prescribed? The combination of umeclidinium and vilanterol is used to control wheezing, shortness of breath, coughing, and chest tightness caused by chronic obstructive pulmonary disease (COPD; a group of diseases that affect the lungs and airways, which includes chronic bronchitis and emphysema). Umeclidinium is in a class of medications called anticholinergics. Vilanterol is in a class of medications called long-acting beta-agonists (LABAs). These medications work by relaxing and opening air passages in the lungs, making it easier to breathe. How should this medicine be used? The combination of umeclidinium and vilanterol comes as a powder to inhale by mouth using a special inhaler. It is usually inhaled once a day. Inhale umeclidinium and vilanterol at around the same time every day. Follow the directions on your prescription label carefully, and ask your doctor or pharmacist to explain any part you do not understand. Use umeclidinium and vilanterol exactly as directed. Do not use more or less of it or use it more often than prescribed by your doctor. Do not use umeclidinium and vilanterol inhalation to treat sudden attacks of COPD. Your doctor will prescribe a short-acting beta agonist medication such as albuterol (Accuneb, Proair, Proventil, Ventolin) to use during attacks. If you were using this type of medication on a regular basis before you began treatment with umeclidinium and vilanterol, your doctor will probably tell you to stop using it regularly but to continue to use it to treat attacks. Umeclidinium and vilanterol inhalation should not be used to treat COPD that is quickly getting worse. Call your doctor or get emergency medical help if your breathing problems worsen, if you have to use your short-acting inhaler to treat attacks of COPD more often, or if your short-acting inhaler does not relieve your symptoms. Umeclidinium and vilanterol inhalation controls COPD but does not cure it. Continue to use umeclidinium and vilanterol even if you feel well. Do not stop using umeclidinium and vilanterol without talking to your doctor. If you stop using umeclidinium and vilanterol inhalation, your symptoms may get worse. Before you use umeclidinium and vilanterol inhalation for the first time, ask your doctor, pharmacist, or respiratory therapist to show you how to use the inhaler. Practice using your inhaler while he or she watches. To use the inhaler, follow these steps: If you will be using a new inhaler for the first time, remove it from the box and the foil tray. Fill in the "Tray opened" and "Discard" blanks on the inhaler label with the date that you opened the tray and the date 6 weeks later when you must replace the inhaler. When you are ready to inhale your dose, slide the cover down to expose the mouthpiece until it clicks. If you open and close the inhaler without using your dose, you will waste the medication. The counter will count down by 1 each time you open the cover. If the counter does not count down, your inhaler will not provide the medicine. If your inhaler does not count down, call your pharmacist or doctor. Hold the inhaler away from your mouth and breathe out as completely as possible through your mouth. Do not breathe out into the mouthpiece. Put the mouthpiece between your lips, and close your lips firmly around it. Take a long, steady, deep breath in through your mouth. Do not breathe in through your nose. Be careful not to block the air vent with your fingers. Remove the inhaler from your mouth, and hold your breath for about 3 to 4 seconds or as long as you comfortably can. Breathe out slowly. You may or may not taste or feel the medicine released by the inhaler. Even if you do not, do not inhale another dose. If you are not sure you are getting your dose of umeclidinium and vilanterol, call your doctor or pharmacist. You may clean the mouthpiece with a dry tissue, if needed. Slide the cover up over the mouthpiece as far as it will go to close the inhaler. Ask your pharmacist or doctor for a copy of the manufacturer's information for the patient. Other uses for this medicine This medication may be prescribed for other uses; ask your doctor or pharmacist for more information. What special precautions should I follow? Before using umeclidinium and vilanterol, tell your doctor and pharmacist if you are allergic to umeclidinium, vilanterol, any other medications, milk protein, or any of the ingredients in umeclidinium and vilanterol inhalation. Ask your pharmacist or check the Medication Guide for a list of the ingredients. tell your doctor and pharmacist what other prescription and nonprescription medications, vitamins, nutritional supplements, and herbal products you are taking or plan to take. Your doctor may need to change the doses of your medications or monitor you carefully for side effects. tell your doctor if you have asthma. Your doctor will tell you not to use umeclidinium and vilanterol unless you are using it along with an inhaled steroid medication. tell your doctor if you have or have ever had high blood pressure, irregular heartbeat, QT prolongation (an irregular heart rhythm that can lead to fainting, loss of consciousness, seizures, or sudden death), seizures, diabetes, glaucoma (an eye disease), urinary retention (difficulty urinating), prostate or bladder problems, or heart, thyroid, or liver disease. tell your doctor if you are pregnant, plan to become pregnant, or are breastfeeding. If you become pregnant while using umeclidinium and vilanterol, call your doctor. you should know that umeclidinium and vilanterol inhalation sometimes causes wheezing and difficulty breathing immediately after it is inhaled. If this happens, call your doctor right away. Do not use umeclidinium and vilanterol inhalation again unless your doctor tells you that you should. What special dietary instructions should I follow? Unless your doctor tells you otherwise, continue your normal diet. What should I do if I forget a dose? Inhale the missed dose as soon as you remember it. However, if it is almost time for the next dose, skip the missed dose and continue your regular dosing schedule. Do not use more than one dose in a day and do not inhale a double dose to make up for a missed one. What side effects can this medication cause? Umeclidinium and vilanterol may cause side effects. Tell your doctor if any of these symptoms are severe or do not go away: shaking of a part of your body that you cannot control nervousness runny nose, sore throat constipation diarrhea pain in your arms or legs muscle spasms neck pain Some side effects can be serious. If you experience any of these symptoms, stop using umeclidinium and vilanterol and call your doctor immediately or get emergency medical treatment: rash; hives; itching; trouble breathing; or swelling of the face, mouth, or tongue pounding, fast, or irregular heartbeat chest pain eye pain, redness, or discomfort; blurred vision; seeing halos or bright colors around lights, sometimes along with nausea and vomiting difficulty urinating or urinating in a weak stream or drips frequent or painful urination Umeclidinium and vilanterol may cause other side effects. Call your doctor if you have any unusual problems while using this medication. If you experience a serious side effect, you or your doctor may send a report to the Food and Drug Administration's (FDA) MedWatch Adverse Event Reporting program online ( http://www.fda.gov/Safety/MedWatch ) or by phone (1-800-332-1088). What should I know about storage and disposal of this medication? Keep this medication in the foil tray it came in, tightly closed, and out of reach of children. Store it at room temperature and away from sunlight, excess heat and moisture (not in the bathroom). Dispose of the inhaler 6 weeks after you remove it from the foil tray or after every blister has been used (when the dose counter reads 0), whichever comes first. Unneeded medications should be disposed of in special ways to ensure that pets, children, and other people cannot consume them. However, you should not flush this medication down the toilet. Instead, the best way to dispose of your medication is through a medicine take-back program. Talk to your pharmacist or contact your local garbage/recycling department to learn about take-back programs in your community. See the FDA's Safe Disposal of Medicines website ( http://goo.gl/c4Rm4p ) for more information if you do not have access to a take-back program. It is important to keep all medication out of sight and reach of children as many containers (such as weekly pill minders and those for eye drops, creams, patches, and inhalers) are not child-resistant and young children can open them easily. To protect young children from poisoning, always lock safety caps and immediately place the medication in a safe location – one that is up and away and out of their sight and reach. http://www.upandaway.org In case of emergency/overdose In case of overdose, call the poison control helpline at 1-800-222-1222. Information is also available online at https://www.poisonhelp.org/help . If the victim has collapsed, had a seizure, has trouble breathing, or can't be awakened, immediately call emergency services at 911. Symptoms of overdose may include the following: seizures chest pain shortness of breath dizziness fast, pounding, or irregular heartbeat nervousness headache shaking of a part of your body that you cannot control muscle cramps or weakness dry mouth dry skin nausea dizziness excessive tiredness difficulty falling asleep or staying asleep blurred vision dilated pupils seeing things or hearing voices that do not exist (hallucinating) What other information should I know? Keep all appointments with your doctor. Before having any laboratory test (especially those that involve methylene blue), tell your doctor and the laboratory personnel that you are using umeclidinium and vilanterol. Do not let anyone else take your medication. Ask your pharmacist any questions you have about refilling your prescription. It is important for you to keep a written list of all of the prescription and nonprescription (over-the-counter) medicines you are taking, as well as any products such as vitamins, minerals, or other dietary supplements. You should bring this list with you each time you visit a doctor or if you are admitted to a hospital. It is also important information to carry with you in case of emergencies.















[ Diphenhydramine Topical pronounced as (dye fen hye' dra meen) To use the sharing features on this page, please enable JavaScript. Why is this medication prescribed? How should this medicine be used? What special precautions should I follow? What should I do if I forget a dose? What side effects can this medication cause? What should I know about storage and disposal of this medication? What other information should I know? Brand names Why is this medication prescribed? Diphenhydramine, an antihistamine, is used to relieve the itching of insect bites, sunburns, bee stings, poison ivy, poison oak, and minor skin irritation. This medication is sometimes prescribed for other uses; ask your doctor or pharmacist for more information. How should this medicine be used? Diphenhydramine topical comes in cream, lotion, gel, and spray to be applied to the skin. It is used three or four times a day. Follow the directions on the package or on your prescription label carefully, and ask your doctor or pharmacist to explain any part you do not understand. Use diphenhydramine exactly as directed. Do not use more or less of it or use it more often than directed by your doctor. Thoroughly clean the affected area, allow it to dry, and then gently rub the medication in until most of it disappears. Use just enough medication to cover the affected area. You should wash your hands after applying the medication. Do not apply diphenhydramine on chicken pox or measles, and do not use it on a child younger than 2 years of age unless directed to do so by a doctor. What special precautions should I follow? Before using diphenhydramine, tell your doctor and pharmacist if you are allergic to diphenhydramine or any other drugs. Tell your doctor and pharmacist what prescription and nonprescription medications, vitamins, nutritional supplements, and herbal products you are taking or plan to take. tell your doctor if you are pregnant, plan to become pregnant, or are breast-feeding. If you become pregnant while using diphenhydramine, call your doctor. plan to avoid unnecessary or prolonged exposure to sunlight and to wear protective clothing, sunglasses, and sunscreen. Diphenhydramine may make your skin sensitive to sunlight. What should I do if I forget a dose? Apply the missed dose as soon as you remember it. However, if it is almost time for the next dose, skip the missed dose and continue your regular dosing schedule. Do not apply a double dose to make up for a missed one. What side effects can this medication cause? Diphenhydramine may cause side effects. Tell your doctor if any of these symptoms are severe or do not go away: skin rash sunburn increased sensitivity to sunlamps and sunlight What should I know about storage and disposal of this medication? Keep this medication in the container it came in, tightly closed, and out of reach of children. Store it at room temperature and away from excess heat and moisture (not in the bathroom). The spray is flammable. Keep it away from flames and extreme heat. It is important to keep all medication out of sight and reach of children as many containers (such as weekly pill minders and those for eye drops, creams, patches, and inhalers) are not child-resistant and young children can open them easily. To protect young children from poisoning, always lock safety caps and immediately place the medication in a safe location – one that is up and away and out of their sight and reach. http://www.upandaway.org What other information should I know? Keep all appointments with your doctor. Diphenhydramine is for external use only. Do not let diphenhydramine get into your eyes, nose, or mouth, and do not swallow it. Do not apply dressings, bandages, cosmetics, lotions, or other skin medications to the area being treated unless your doctor tells you. Do not let anyone else use your medication. Ask your pharmacist any questions you have about refilling your prescription. Tell your doctor if your skin condition becomes severe or does not go away. It is important for you to keep a written list of all of the prescription and nonprescription (over-the-counter) medicines you are taking, as well as any products such as vitamins, minerals, or other dietary supplements. You should bring this list with you each time you visit a doctor or if you are admitted to a hospital. It is also important information to carry with you in case of emergencies. Brand names Afterbite with Antihistamine Benadryl ® Itch Stopping Gel

[ Diphenhydramine Topical pronounced as (dye fen hye' dra meen) To use the sharing features on this page, please enable JavaScript. Why is this medication prescribed? How should this medicine be used? What special precautions should I follow? What should I do if I forget a dose? What side effects can this medication cause? What should I know about storage and disposal of this medication? What other information should I know? Brand names Why is this medication prescribed? Diphenhydramine, an antihistamine, is used to relieve the itching of insect bites, sunburns, bee stings, poison ivy, poison oak, and minor skin irritation. This medication is sometimes prescribed for other uses; ask your doctor or pharmacist for more information. How should this medicine be used? Diphenhydramine topical comes in cream, lotion, gel, and spray to be applied to the skin. It is used three or four times a day. Follow the directions on the package or on your prescription label carefully, and ask your doctor or pharmacist to explain any part you do not understand. Use diphenhydramine exactly as directed. Do not use more or less of it or use it more often than directed by your doctor. Thoroughly clean the affected area, allow it to dry, and then gently rub the medication in until most of it disappears. Use just enough medication to cover the affected area. You should wash your hands after applying the medication. Do not apply diphenhydramine on chicken pox or measles, and do not use it on a child younger than 2 years of age unless directed to do so by a doctor. What special precautions should I follow? Before using diphenhydramine, tell your doctor and pharmacist if you are allergic to diphenhydramine or any other drugs. Tell your doctor and pharmacist what prescription and nonprescription medications, vitamins, nutritional supplements, and herbal products you are taking or plan to take. tell your doctor if you are pregnant, plan to become pregnant, or are breast-feeding. If you become pregnant while using diphenhydramine, call your doctor. plan to avoid unnecessary or prolonged exposure to sunlight and to wear protective clothing, sunglasses, and sunscreen. Diphenhydramine may make your skin sensitive to sunlight. What should I do if I forget a dose? Apply the missed dose as soon as you remember it. However, if it is almost time for the next dose, skip the missed dose and continue your regular dosing schedule. Do not apply a double dose to make up for a missed one. What side effects can this medication cause? Diphenhydramine may cause side effects. Tell your doctor if any of these symptoms are severe or do not go away: skin rash sunburn increased sensitivity to sunlamps and sunlight What should I know about storage and disposal of this medication? Keep this medication in the container it came in, tightly closed, and out of reach of children. Store it at room temperature and away from excess heat and moisture (not in the bathroom). The spray is flammable. Keep it away from flames and extreme heat. It is important to keep all medication out of sight and reach of children as many containers (such as weekly pill minders and those for eye drops, creams, patches, and inhalers) are not child-resistant and young children can open them easily. To protect young children from poisoning, always lock safety caps and immediately place the medication in a safe location – one that is up and away and out of their sight and reach. http://www.upandaway.org What other information should I know? Keep all appointments with your doctor. Diphenhydramine is for external use only. Do not let diphenhydramine get into your eyes, nose, or mouth, and do not swallow it. Do not apply dressings, bandages, cosmetics, lotions, or other skin medications to the area being treated unless your doctor tells you. Do not let anyone else use your medication. Ask your pharmacist any questions you have about refilling your prescription. Tell your doctor if your skin condition becomes severe or does not go away. It is important for you to keep a written list of all of the prescription and nonprescription (over-the-counter) medicines you are taking, as well as any products such as vitamins, minerals, or other dietary supplements. You should bring this list with you each time you visit a doctor or if you are admitted to a hospital. It is also important information to carry with you in case of emergencies. Brand names Afterbite with Antihistamine Benadryl ® Itch Stopping Gel





[ Antipyrine-Benzocaine Otic pronounced as (an tee pye' reen) (ben' zoe kane) To use the sharing features on this page, please enable JavaScript. Why is this medication prescribed? How should this medicine be used? Other uses for this medicine What special precautions should I follow? What special dietary instructions should I follow? What should I do if I forget a dose? What side effects can this medication cause? What should I know about storage and disposal of this medication? In case of emergency/overdose What other information should I know? Why is this medication prescribed? Antipyrine and benzocaine otic is used to relieve ear pain and swelling caused by middle ear infections. It may be used along with antibiotics to treat an ear infection. It is also used to help remove a build up of ear wax in the ear. Antipyrine and benzocaine are in a class of medications called analgesics. The combination of antipyrine and benzocaine works by reducing pain and discomfort in the ear. How should this medicine be used? Antipyrine and benzocaine otic comes as a solution (liquid) to place into the ear. When antipyrine and benzocaine is used to relieve ear pain, it is usually used every 1 to 2 hours as needed. When antipyrine and benzocaine is used to help in the removal of ear wax, it is usually used 3 times daily for 2-3 days. Follow the directions on your prescription label carefully, and ask your doctor or pharmacist to explain any part you do not understand. Use antipyrine and benzocaine otic exactly as directed. Antipyrine and benzocaine otic is for use only in the ears. To use the eardrops, follow these steps: Hold the bottle in your hand for 1 or 2 minutes to warm the solution. Place the prescribed number of drops into your ear. Be careful not to touch the tip to your ear, fingers, or any other surface. Moisten a small piece of cotton with the drops and insert into the outer ear. Repeat steps 2-4 for the opposite ear if necessary. Other uses for this medicine This medication may be prescribed for other uses; ask your doctor or pharmacist for more information. What special precautions should I follow? Before using antipyrine and benzocaine otic, tell your doctor and pharmacist if you are allergic to antipyrine or benzocaine or any other medications. tell your doctor and pharmacist what other prescription and nonprescription medications, vitamins, nutritional supplements, and herbal products you are taking or plan to take while using antipyrine and benzocaine otic. tell your doctor if you have a hole in your ear drum(s) or ear tube(s). Your doctor will probably tell you not to use this medication. tell your doctor if you are pregnant, plan to become pregnant, or are breast-feeding. If you become pregnant while using antipyrine and benzocaine otic, call your doctor. What special dietary instructions should I follow? Unless your doctor tells you otherwise, continue your normal diet. What should I do if I forget a dose? This medication is usually used as needed. If your doctor has told you to use antipyrine and benzocaine otic regularly, use the missed dose as soon as you remember it. However, if it is almost time for the next dose, skip the missed dose and continue your regular dosing schedule. Do not use extra solution to make up for a missed one. What side effects can this medication cause? Antipyrine and benzocaine otic may cause side effects. Call your doctor if you have any unusual problems while taking this medication. What should I know about storage and disposal of this medication? Keep this medication in the container it came in, tightly closed, and out of reach of children. Store it at room temperature and away from excess heat and moisture (not in the bathroom). Do not freeze. Antipyrine and benzocaine otic should be disposed of 6 months after the bottle is opened. Unneeded medications should be disposed of in special ways to ensure that pets, children, and other people cannot consume them. However, you should not flush this medication down the toilet. Instead, the best way to dispose of your medication is through a medicine take-back program. Talk to your pharmacist or contact your local garbage/recycling department to learn about take-back programs in your community. See the FDA's Safe Disposal of Medicines website ( http://goo.gl/c4Rm4p ) for more information if you do not have access to a take-back program. It is important to keep all medication out of sight and reach of children as many containers (such as weekly pill minders and those for eye drops, creams, patches, and inhalers) are not child-resistant and young children can open them easily. To protect young children from poisoning, always lock safety caps and immediately place the medication in a safe location – one that is up and away and out of their sight and reach. http://www.upandaway.org In case of emergency/overdose If someone swallows antipyrine and benzocaine otic, call your local poison control center at 1-800-222-1222. If the victim has collapsed or is not breathing, call local emergency services at 911. What other information should I know? Keep all appointments with your doctor. Do not let anyone else take your medication. Ask your pharmacist any questions you have about refilling your prescription. It is important for you to keep a written list of all of the prescription and nonprescription (over-the-counter) medicines you are taking, as well as any products such as vitamins, minerals, or other dietary supplements. You should bring this list with you each time you visit a doctor or if you are admitted to a hospital. It is also important information to carry with you in case of emergencies.





[ Hydrocortisone Rectal pronounced as (hye droe kor' ti sone)  Rectal hydrocortisone is used along with other medications to treat proctitis (swelling in the rectum) and ulcerative colitis (a condition which causes swelling and sores in the lining of the large intestine and rectum). It is also used to relieve itching and swelling from hemorrhoids and other rectal problems. Hydrocortisone is in a class of medications called corticosteroids. It works by activating natural substances in the skin to reduce swelling, redness, and itching. How should this medicine be used? Hydrocortisone rectal comes as a cream, an enema, suppositories, and a foam to use in the rectum. Follow the directions on your prescription or your product label carefully, and ask your doctor or pharmacist to explain any part you do not understand. Use rectal hydrocortisone exactly as directed. Do not use it more or less of it or use it more often than prescribed by your doctor. For proctitis, hydrocortisone rectal foam usually is used one or two times a day for 2 to 3 weeks, then if necessary, every other day until your condition improves. Hydrocortisone rectal suppositories usually are used two or three times daily for 2 weeks; may require treatment for up to 6 to 8 weeks in severe cases. Proctitis symptoms may improve within 5 to 7 days. For hemorrhoids, hydrocortisone rectal cream usually is used in adults and children 12 years and older up to 3 or 4 times daily. If you obtained hydrocortisone without a prescription (over the counter) and your condition does not improve within 7 days, stop using it and call your doctor. Do not put the cream into your rectum with your fingers. For ulcerative colitis, hydrocortisone rectal enema usually is used every night for 21 days. Although colitis symptoms may improve within 3 to 5 days, 2 to 3 months of regular enema use may be required. Call your doctor if your colitis symptoms do not improve within 2 or 3 weeks. Your doctor may change your dose of rectal hydrocortisone during your treatment to be sure that you are always using the lowest dose that works for you. Your doctor may also need to change your dose if you experience unusual stress on your body such as surgery, illness, or infection. Tell your doctor if your symptoms improve or get worse or if you get sick or have any changes in your health during your treatment. Hydrocortisone rectal suppositories may stain clothing and other fabrics. Take precautions to prevent staining when you use this medication. Before using hydrocortisone rectal foam the first time, carefully read the written instructions that come with it. Ask your doctor or pharmacist to explain any part you do not understand. If using a hydrocortisone rectal enema, follow these steps: Try to have a bowel movement. The medication will work best if your bowels are empty. Shake the enema bottle well to make sure the medication is mixed. Remove the protective cover from the applicator tip. Be careful to hold the bottle by the neck so that the medication will not leak out of the bottle. Lie down on your left side with your lower (left) leg straight and your right leg bent toward your chest for balance. You can also kneel on a bed, resting your upper chest and one arm on the bed. Gently insert the applicator tip into your rectum, pointing it slightly toward your navel (belly button). Hold the bottle firmly and tilt it slightly so that the nozzle is aimed toward your back. Squeeze the bottle slowly and steadily to release the medicine. Withdraw the applicator. Remain in the same position for at least 30 minutes. Try to keep the medicine inside of your body all night (while you sleep). Wash your hands thoroughly. Throw away the bottle in a trash can that is out of the reach of children and pets. Each bottle contains only one dose and should not be reused. Other uses for this medicine This medication may be prescribed for other uses; ask your doctor or pharmacist for more information. What special precautions should I follow? Before using rectal hydrocortisone, tell your doctor and pharmacist if you are allergic to hydrocortisone, any other medications, or any of the ingredients in rectal hydrocortisone products. Ask your pharmacist for a list of the ingredients. tell your doctor and pharmacist what other prescription and nonprescription medications, vitamins, nutritional supplements, and herbal products you are taking or plan to take. Be sure to mention any of the following: amphotericin B (Abelcet, Ambisome, Fungizone); anticoagulants ('blood thinners') such as warfarin (Coumadin, Jantoven); aspirin or other NSAIDs such as ibuprofen (Advil, Motrin) and naproxen (Aleve, Naprosyn); barbiturates; carbamazepine (Carbatrol, Epitol, Tegretol, others); cyclosporine (Gengraf, Neoral, Sandimmune); digoxin (Lanoxin); hormonal contraceptives (birth control pills, patches, rings, implants, and injections); isoniazid (in Rifamate, in Rifater); ketoconazole (Extina, Nizoral, Xolegel); macrolide antibiotics such as clarithromycin (Biaxin, in Prevpac) or erythromycin (E.E.S., Eryc, Eryped, others); medications for diabetes; phenytoin (Dilantin, Phenytek); and rifampin (Rifadin, Rimactane, in Rifamate, in Rifater). Your doctor may need to change the doses of your medications or monitor you carefully for side effects. Many other medications may also interact with hydrocortisone, so be sure to tell your doctor about all the medications you are taking, even those that do not appear on this list. tell your doctor if you have a fungal infection (other than on your skin or nails), peritonitis (inflammation of the lining of the stomach area), intestinal obstruction, a fistula (abnormal connection between two organs inside your body or between an organ and the outside of your body) or a tear in the wall of your stomach or intestine. Your doctor may tell you not use rectal hydrocortisone. tell your doctor if you have or have ever had threadworms (a type of worm that can live inside the body); diabetes; diverticulitis (inflamed bulges in the lining of the large intestine); heart failure; high blood pressure; a recent heart attack; osteoporosis (condition in which the bones become weak and fragile and can break easily); myasthenia gravis (a condition in which the muscles become weak); emotional problems, depression or other types of mental illness; tuberculosis (TB: a type of lung infection); ulcers; cirrhosis; or liver, kidney, or thyroid disease. Also tell your doctor if you have any type of untreated bacterial, parasitic, or viral infection anywhere in your body or a herpes eye infection (a type of infection that causes a sore on the eyelid or eye surface). tell your doctor if you are pregnant, plan to become pregnant, or are breastfeeding. If you become pregnant while using rectal hydrocortisone, call your doctor. do not have any vaccinations (shots to prevent diseases) without talking to your doctor. if you are having surgery, including dental surgery, tell the doctor or dentist that you are using rectal hydrocortisone. you should know that rectal hydrocortisone may decrease your ability to fight infection and may prevent you from developing symptoms if you get an infection. Stay away from people who are sick and wash your hands often while you are using this medication. Be sure to avoid people who have chicken pox or measles. Call your doctor immediately if you think you may have been around someone who had chicken pox or measles. What special dietary instructions should I follow? Your doctor may instruct you to follow a low-salt, high potassium, or high calcium diet. Your doctor may also prescribe or recommend a calcium or potassium supplement. Follow these directions carefully. What should I do if I forget a dose? Use the missed dose as soon as you remember it. However, if it is almost time for the next dose, skip the missed dose and continue your regular dosing schedule. Do not use a double dose to make up for a missed one. What side effects can this medication cause? Rectal hydrocortisone may cause side effects. Tell your doctor if any of these symptoms are severe or do not go away: headache dizziness local pain or burning muscle weakness extreme changes in mood changes in personality inappropriate happiness difficulty falling asleep or staying asleep slowed healing of cuts and bruises irregular or absent menstrual periods thin, fragile, or dry skin acne increased sweating changes in the way fat is spread around the body Some side effects can be serious. If you experience any of these symptoms, call your doctor immediately: bleeding vision changes depression rash itching swelling of the eyes, face, lips, tongue, throat, hands, arms, feet, ankles, or lower legs hives difficulty breathing or swallowing Children who use rectal hydrocortisone may have an increased risk of side effects including slowed growth and delayed weight gain. Talk to your child's doctor about the risks of using this medication. People who use rectal hydrocortisone for a long time may develop glaucoma or cataracts. Talk to your doctor about the risks of using rectal hydrocortisone and how often you should have your eyes examined during your treatment. Rectal hydrocortisone may increase your risk of developing osteoporosis. Talk to your doctor about the risks of using this medication. Rectal hydrocortisone may cause other side effects. Call your doctor if you have any unusual problems while using this medication. If you experience a serious side effect, you or your doctor may send a report to the Food and Drug Administration's (FDA) MedWatch Adverse Event Reporting program online ( http://www.fda.gov/Safety/MedWatch ) or by phone (1-800-332-1088). What should I know about storage and disposal of this medication? Keep this medication in the container it came in, tightly closed, and out of reach of children. Store it according to the package instructions. Store it at room temperature and away from excess heat and moisture (not in the bathroom). Do not freeze or refrigerate rectal hydrocortisone products. Unneeded medications should be disposed of in special ways to ensure that pets, children, and other people cannot consume them. However, you should not flush this medication down the toilet. Instead, the best way to dispose of your medication is through a medicine take-back program. Talk to your pharmacist or contact your local garbage/recycling department to learn about take-back programs in your community. See the FDA's Safe Disposal of Medicines website ( http://goo.gl/c4Rm4p ) for more information if you do not have access to a take-back program. It is important to keep all medication out of sight and reach of children as many containers (such as weekly pill minders and those for eye drops, creams, patches, and inhalers) are not child-resistant and young children can open them easily. To protect young children from poisoning, always lock safety caps and immediately place the medication in a safe location – one that is up and away and out of their sight and reach. http://www.upandaway.org In case of emergency/overdose In case of overdose, call the poison control helpline at 1-800-222-1222. Information is also available online at https://www.poisonhelp.org/help . If the victim has collapsed, had a seizure, has trouble breathing, or can't be awakened, immediately call emergency services at 911. What other information should I know? Keep all appointments with your doctor and the laboratory. Your doctor may order certain lab tests to check your body's response to rectal hydrocortisone. Before having any laboratory test, tell your doctor and the laboratory personnel that you are using rectal hydrocortisone. Do not let anyone else use your medication. Ask your pharmacist any questions you have about refilling your prescription. It is important for you to keep a written list of all of the prescription and nonprescription (over-the-counter) medicines you are taking, as well as any products such as vitamins, minerals, or other dietary supplements. You should bring this list with you each time you visit a doctor or if you are admitted to a hospital. It is also important information to carry with you in case of emergencies. Brand names Anusol HC ® Colocort ® Cortifoam ® Cortenema ® Preparation H Anti-Itch ® Proctocort ® Suppository

[ Hydrocortisone Topical pronounced as (hye droe kor' ti sone)  Hydrocortisone topical is used to treat redness, swelling, itching, and discomfort of various skin conditions. Hydrocortisone is in a class of medications called corticosteroids. It works by activating natural substances in the skin to reduce swelling, redness, and itching. How should this medicine be used? Hydrocortisone comes as ointment, cream, solution (liquid), spray, or lotion for use on the skin. Hydrocortisone topical is usually used one to four times a day for skin problems. Apply it at around the same time(s) every day. Follow the directions on your prescription or product label carefully, and ask your doctor or pharmacist to explain any part you do not understand. Use hydrocortisone exactly as directed. Do not apply more or less of it or apply it more often than prescribed by your doctor. Do not apply it to other areas of your body or use it to treat other skin conditions unless directed to do so by your doctor. If your doctor has prescribed hydrocortisone for your condition, call your doctor if your symptoms do not improve in the first 2 weeks of your treatment. If you obtained hydrocortisone without a prescription (over the counter) and your condition does not improve within 7 days, stop using it and call your doctor. To use hydrocortisone topical, apply a small amount of ointment, cream, solution, spray, or lotion to cover the affected area of skin with a thin even film and rub it in gently. This medication is only for use on the skin. Do not let hydrocortisone topical get into your eyes or mouth and do not swallow it. Do not wrap or bandage the treated area unless your doctor tells you that you should. If you have psoriasis, your doctor may recommend an occlusive dressing. If you are applying hydrocortisone topical to a child's diaper area, do not cover the area with tight fitting diapers or plastic pants. Other uses for this medicine This medication may be prescribed for other uses; ask your doctor or pharmacist for more information. What special precautions should I follow? Before using hydrocortisone topical, tell your doctor and pharmacist if you are allergic to hydrocortisone, any other medications, or any of the ingredients in hydrocortisone topical products. Ask your pharmacist for a list of the ingredients. tell your doctor if you have or have ever had diabetes or Cushing's syndrome (an abnormal condition that is caused by excess hormones [corticosteroids]). tell your doctor if you are pregnant, plan to become pregnant, or are breastfeeding. If you become pregnant while using hydrocortisone topical, call your doctor. What special dietary instructions should I follow? Unless your doctor tells you otherwise, continue your normal diet. What should I do if I forget a dose? Apply the missed dose as soon as you remember it. However, if it is almost time for the next dose, skip the missed dose and continue your regular dosing schedule. Do not apply a double amount to make up for a missed dose. What side effects can this medication cause? Hydrocortisone topical may cause side effects. Tell your doctor if any of these symptoms are severe or do not go away: burning, itching, irritation, redness, or dryness of the skin acne unwanted hair growth skin color changes tiny red bumps or rash around the mouth small white or red bumps on the skin Some side effects can be serious. If you experience any of these symptoms, call your doctor immediately: severe rash redness, swelling, or other signs of skin infection in the place where you applied hydrocortisone Children who use hydrocortisone topical may have an increased risk of side effects including slowed growth and delayed weight gain. Talk to your child's doctor about the risks of applying this medication to your child's skin. Hydrocortisone topical may cause other side effects. Call your doctor if you have any unusual problems while using this medication. If you experience a serious side effect, you or your doctor may send a report to the Food and Drug Administration's (FDA) MedWatch Adverse Event Reporting program online ( http://www.fda.gov/Safety/MedWatch ) or by phone (1-800-332-1088). What should I know about storage and disposal of this medication? Keep this medication in the container it came in, tightly closed, and out of reach of children. Store it at room temperature and away from excess heat and moisture (not in the bathroom). Do not freeze it. Unneeded medications should be disposed of in special ways to ensure that pets, children, and other people cannot consume them. However, you should not flush this medication down the toilet. Instead, the best way to dispose of your medication is through a medicine take-back program. Talk to your pharmacist or contact your local garbage/recycling department to learn about take-back programs in your community. See the FDA's Safe Disposal of Medicines website ( http://goo.gl/c4Rm4p ) for more information if you do not have access to a take-back program. It is important to keep all medication out of sight and reach of children as many containers (such as weekly pill minders and those for eye drops, creams, patches, and inhalers) are not child-resistant and young children can open them easily. To protect young children from poisoning, always lock safety caps and immediately place the medication in a safe location – one that is up and away and out of their sight and reach. http://www.upandaway.org In case of emergency/overdose If someone swallows hydrocortisone, call your local poison control center at 1-800-222-1222. If the victim has collapsed or is not breathing, call local emergency services at 911. What other information should I know? Keep all appointments with your doctor. Ask your pharmacist any questions you have about hydrocortisone topical. It is important for you to keep a written list of all of the prescription and nonprescription (over-the-counter) medicines you are taking, as well as any products such as vitamins, minerals, or other dietary supplements. You should bring this list with you each time you visit a doctor or if you are admitted to a hospital. It is also important information to carry with you in case of emergencies. Brand names Ala-Cort ® Ala-Scalp ® Anusol HC ® Cortizone 10 ® Cortizone 10 ® Quick Shot Anti-Itch Spray Dermacort ® ¶ Dermasorb ® HC Hyderm ® Locoid ® Micort-HC ® Neosporin ® Eczema Essentials Nutracort ® Pandel ® Proctocort ® Cream ¶ Stie-Cort ® Synacort ® Texacort ®











[ Acetaminophen pronounced as (a set a mee' noe fen) To use the sharing features on this page, please enable JavaScript. Why is this medication prescribed? How should this medicine be used? Other uses for this medicine What special precautions should I follow? What special dietary instructions should I follow? What should I do if I forget a dose? What side effects can this medication cause? What should I know about storage and disposal of this medication? In case of emergency/overdose What other information should I know? Brand names Other names IMPORTANT WARNING: Taking too much acetaminophen can cause liver damage, sometimes serious enough to require liver transplantation or cause death. You might accidentally take too much acetaminophen if you do not follow the directions on the prescription or package label carefully, or if you take more than one product that contains acetaminophen. To be sure that you take acetaminophen safely, you should not take more than one product that contains acetaminophen at a time. Read the labels of all the prescription and nonprescription medications you are taking to see if they contain acetaminophen. Be aware that abbreviations such as APAP, AC, Acetaminophen, Acetaminoph, Acetaminop, Acetamin, or Acetam. may be written on the label in place of the word acetaminophen. Ask your doctor or pharmacist if you don't know if a medication that you are taking contains acetaminophen. take acetaminophen exactly as directed on the prescription or package label. Do not take more acetaminophen or take it more often than directed, even if you still have fever or pain. Ask your doctor or pharmacist if you do not know how much medication to take or how often to take your medication. Call your doctor if you still have pain or fever after taking your medication as directed. be aware that you should not take more than 4000 mg of acetaminophen per day. If you need to take more than one product that contains acetaminophen, it may be difficult for you to calculate the total amount of acetaminophen you are taking. Ask your doctor or pharmacist to help you. tell your doctor if you have or have ever had liver disease. not take acetaminophen if you drink three or more alcoholic drinks every day. Talk to your doctor about the safe use of alcohol while you are taking acetaminophen. stop taking your medication and call your doctor right away if you think you have taken too much acetaminophen, even if you feel well. Talk to your pharmacist or doctor if you have questions about the safe use of acetaminophen or acetaminophen-containing products. Why is this medication prescribed? Acetaminophen is used to relieve mild to moderate pain from headaches, muscle aches, menstrual periods, colds and sore throats, toothaches, backaches, reactions to vaccinations (shots), and to reduce fever. Acetaminophen may also be used to relieve the pain of osteoarthritis (arthritis caused by the breakdown of the lining of the joints). Acetaminophen is in a class of medications called analgesics (pain relievers) and antipyretics (fever reducers). It works by changing the way the body senses pain and by cooling the body. How should this medicine be used? Acetaminophen comes as a tablet, chewable tablet, capsule, suspension or solution (liquid), extended-release (long-acting) tablet, and orally disintegrating tablet (tablet that dissolves quickly in the mouth), to take by mouth, with or without food. Acetaminophen is available without a prescription, but your doctor may prescribe acetaminophen to treat certain conditions. Follow the directions on the package or prescription label carefully, and ask your doctor or pharmacist to explain any part you do not understand. If you are giving acetaminophen to your child, read the package label carefully to make sure that it is the right product for the age of the child. Do not give children acetaminophen products that are made for adults. Some products for adults and older children may contain too much acetaminophen for a younger child. Check the package label to find out how much medication the child needs. If you know how much your child weighs, give the dose that matches that weight on the chart. If you don't know your child's weight, give the dose that matches your child's age. Ask your child's doctor if you don't know how much medication to give your child. Acetaminophen comes in combination with other medications to treat cough and cold symptoms. Ask your doctor or pharmacist for advice on which product is best for your symptoms. Check nonprescription cough and cold product labels carefully before using two or more products at the same time. These products may contain the same active ingredient(s) and taking them together could cause you to receive an overdose. This is especially important if you will be giving cough and cold medications to a child. Swallow the extended-release tablets whole; do not split, chew, crush, or dissolve them. Place the orally disintegrating tablet ('Meltaways') in your mouth and allow it to dissolve, or chew it before swallowing. Shake the suspension well before each use to mix the medication evenly. Always use the measuring cup or syringe provided by the manufacturer to measure each dose of the solution or suspension. Do not switch dosing devices between different products; always use the device that comes in the product packaging. Stop taking acetaminophen and call your doctor if your symptoms get worse, you develop new or unexpected symptoms, including redness or swelling, your pain lasts for more than 10 days, or your fever gets worse or lasts more than 3 days. Also stop giving acetaminophen to your child and call your child's doctor if your child develops new symptoms, including redness or swelling, or if your child's pain lasts for longer than 5 days, or if a fever gets worse or lasts longer than 3 days. Do not give acetaminophen to a child who has a sore throat that is severe or does not go away, or that occurs along with fever, headache, rash, nausea, or vomiting. Call the child's doctor right away, because these symptoms may be signs of a more serious condition. Other uses for this medicine Acetaminophen may also be used in combination with aspirin and caffeine to relieve the pain associated with migraine headache. This medication is sometimes prescribed for other uses; ask your doctor or pharmacist for more information. What special precautions should I follow? Before taking acetaminophen, tell your doctor and pharmacist if you are allergic to acetaminophen, any other medications, or any of the ingredients in the product. Ask your pharmacist or check the label on the package for a list of ingredients. tell your doctor and pharmacist what prescription and nonprescription medications, vitamins, nutritional supplements, or herbal products you are taking or plan to take while taking acetaminophen. Your doctor may need to change the doses of your medications or monitor you carefully for side effects. The following nonprescription products may interact with acetaminophen: medications for pain, coughs, fever, and colds. Be sure to let your doctor and pharmacist know that you are taking these medications before you start taking acetaminophen. Do not start any of these medications while taking acetaminophen without discussing with your healthcare provider. tell your doctor if you have ever developed a rash after taking acetaminophen. tell your doctor if you are pregnant, plan to become pregnant, or are breast-feeding. If you become pregnant while taking acetaminophen, call your doctor. if you drink three or more alcoholic beverages every day, do not take acetaminophen. Ask your doctor or pharmacist about the safe use of alcoholic beverages while taking acetaminophen. you should know that combination acetaminophen products for cough and colds that contain nasal decongestants, antihistamines, cough suppressants, and expectorants should not be used in children younger than 2 years of age. Use of these medications in young children can cause serious and life-threatening effects or death. In children 2 through 11 years of age, combination cough and cold products should be used carefully and only according to the directions on the label. if you have phenylketonuria (PKU, an inherited condition in which a special diet must be followed to prevent damage to your brain that can cause severe intellectual disability), you should know that some brands of acetaminophen chewable tablets may be sweetened with aspartame, a source of phenylalanine. What special dietary instructions should I follow? Unless your doctor tells you otherwise, continue your normal diet. What should I do if I forget a dose? This medication is usually taken as needed. If your doctor has told you to take acetaminophen regularly, take the missed dose as soon as you remember it. However, if it is almost time for the next dose, skip the missed dose and continue your regular dosing schedule. Do not take a double dose to make up for a missed one. What side effects can this medication cause? Acetaminophen may cause side effects. Some side effects can be serious. If you experience any of the following symptoms, stop taking acetaminophen and call your doctor immediately or get emergency medical attention: red, peeling or blistering skin rash hives itching swelling of the face, throat, tongue, lips, eyes, hands, feet, ankles, or lower legs hoarseness difficulty breathing or swallowing Acetaminophen may cause other side effects. Call your doctor if you have any unusual problems while you are taking this medication. If you experience a serious side effect, you or your doctor may send a report to the Food and Drug Administration's (FDA) MedWatch Adverse Event Reporting program online ( http://www.fda.gov/Safety/MedWatch ) or by phone (1-800-332-1088). What should I know about storage and disposal of this medication? Keep this medication in the container it came in, tightly closed, and out of reach of children. Store it at room temperature and away from excess heat and moisture (not in the bathroom). It is important to keep all medication out of sight and reach of children as many containers (such as weekly pill minders and those for eye drops, creams, patches, and inhalers) are not child-resistant and young children can open them easily. To protect young children from poisoning, always lock safety caps and immediately place the medication in a safe location – one that is up and away and out of their sight and reach. http://www.upandaway.org Unneeded medications should be disposed of in special ways to ensure that pets, children, and other people cannot consume them. However, you should not flush this medication down the toilet. Instead, the best way to dispose of your medication is through a medicine take-back program. Talk to your pharmacist or contact your local garbage/recycling department to learn about take-back programs in your community. See the FDA's Safe Disposal of Medicines website ( http://goo.gl/c4Rm4p ) for more information if you do not have access to a take-back program. In case of emergency/overdose In case of overdose, call the poison control helpline at 1-800-222-1222. Information is also available online at https://www.poisonhelp.org/help . If the victim has collapsed, had a seizure, has trouble breathing, or can't be awakened, immediately call emergency services at 911. If someone takes more than the recommended dose of acetaminophen, get medical help immediately, even if the person does not have any symptoms. Symptoms of overdose may include the following: nausea vomiting loss of appetite sweating extreme tiredness unusual bleeding or bruising pain in the upper right part of the stomach yellowing of the skin or eyes flu-like symptoms What other information should I know? Before having any laboratory test, tell your doctor and the laboratory personnel that you are taking acetaminophen. Ask your pharmacist any questions you have about acetaminophen. It is important for you to keep a written list of all of the prescription and nonprescription (over-the-counter) medicines you are taking, as well as any products such as vitamins, minerals, or other dietary supplements. You should bring this list with you each time you visit a doctor or if you are admitted to a hospital. It is also important information to carry with you in case of emergencies. Brand names Actamin ® Feverall ® Panadol ® Tempra Quicklets ® Tylenol ®

[ Acetaminophen and Codeine pronounced as (a set a mee' noe fen) (koe' deen) To use the sharing features on this page, please enable JavaScript. Why is this medication prescribed? How should this medicine be used? Other uses for this medicine What special precautions should I follow? What should I do if I forget a dose? What side effects can this medication cause? What should I know about storage and disposal of this medication? In case of emergency/overdose What other information should I know? Brand names Other names IMPORTANT WARNING: The combination of acetaminophen and codeine may be habit forming, especially with prolonged use. Take acetaminophen and codeine exactly as directed. Do not take more of it, take it more often, or take it in a different way than directed by your doctor. While taking acetaminophen and codeine, discuss with your health care provider your pain treatment goals, length of treatment, and other ways to manage your pain. Tell your doctor if you or anyone in your family drinks or has ever drunk large amounts of alcohol, uses or has ever used street drugs, or has overused prescription medications, or has had an overdose, or if you have or have ever had depression or another mental illness. There is a greater risk that you will overuse acetaminophen and codeine if you have or have ever had any of these conditions. Talk to your health care provider immediately and ask for guidance if you think that you have an opioid addiction or call the U.S. Substance Abuse and Mental Health Services Administration (SAMHSA) National Helpline at 1-800-662-HELP. The combination of acetaminophen and codeine may cause serious or life-threatening breathing problems, especially during the first 24 to 72 hours of your treatment and any time your dose is increased. Your doctor will monitor you carefully during your treatment. Tell your doctor if you have or have ever had slowed breathing or asthma. Your doctor will probably tell you not to take acetaminophen and codeine. Also tell your doctor if you have or have ever had lung disease such as chronic obstructive pulmonary disease (COPD; a group of diseases that affect the lungs and airways), a head injury, brain tumor, or any condition that increases the amount of pressure in your brain. The risk that you will develop breathing problems may be higher if you are an older adult or are weak or malnourished due to disease. If you experience any of the following symptoms, call your doctor immediately or get emergency medical treatment: slowed breathing, long pauses between breaths, or shortness of breath. When codeine-containing medication was used in children, serious and life-threatening breathing problems such as slow or difficulty breathing and deaths were reported. Acetaminophen and codeine should never be used to treat pain or cough in children younger than 12 years of age or to relieve pain after surgery to remove the tonsils and/or adenoids in children younger than 18 years of age. Acetaminophen and codeine should not be used in children 12 to 18 years of age who are obese or who have a neuromuscular disease (disease that affects the nerves that control voluntary muscles), a lung disease, or obstructive sleep apnea (condition in which the airway becomes blocked or narrow and breathing stops for short periods during sleep) as these conditions may increase their risk of breathing problems. Taking too much acetaminophen (found in this combination preparation) can cause liver damage, sometimes serious enough to require liver transplantation or cause death. You might accidentally take too much acetaminophen if you do not follow the directions on the prescription or package label carefully, or if you take more than one product that contains acetaminophen. Be aware that you should not take more than 4,000 mg of acetaminophen per day. Tell your doctor if you have or have ever had liver disease. If you need to take more than one product that contains acetaminophen, it may be difficult for you to calculate the total amount of acetaminophen you are taking. Ask your doctor or pharmacist to help you. Taking certain medications during your treatment with acetaminophen and codeine may increase the risk that you will experience breathing problems or other serious, life threatening breathing problems, sedation, or coma. Tell your doctor if you are taking or plan to take any of the following medications: certain antifungal medications including itraconazole (Onmel, Sporanox), ketoconazole, and voriconazole (Vfend); benzodiazepines such as alprazolam (Xanax), diazepam (Diastat, Valium), estazolam, flurazepam, lorazepam (Ativan), and triazolam (Halcion); carbamazepine (Carbatrol, Epitol, Equetro, Tegretol, Teril); erythromycin (Erytab, Erythrocin); certain medications for human immunodeficiency virus (HIV) including indinavir (Crixivan), nelfinavir (Viracept), and ritonavir (Norvir, in Kaletra); muscle relaxants; other pain medications; phenytoin (Dilantin, Phenytek); rifampin (Rifadin, Rimactane, in Rifamate); sedatives; sleeping pills; or tranquilizers. Your doctor may need to change the dosages of your medications and will monitor you carefully. If you take acetaminophen and codeine with any of these medications and you develop any of the following symptoms, call your doctor immediately or seek emergency medical care: unusual dizziness, lightheadedness, extreme sleepiness, slowed or difficult breathing, or unresponsiveness. Be sure that your caregiver or family members know which symptoms may be serious so they can call the doctor or emergency medical care if you are unable to seek treatment on your own. Drinking alcohol, taking prescription or nonprescription medications that contain alcohol, or using street drugs during your treatment with acetaminophen and codeine increases the risk that you will experience serious, life-threatening side effects. Do not drink alcohol, take prescription or nonprescription medications that contain alcohol, or use street drugs during your treatment. Tell your doctor if you are pregnant or plan to become pregnant. If you take acetaminophen and codeine regularly during your pregnancy, your baby may experience life-threatening withdrawal symptoms after birth. Tell your baby's doctor right away if your baby experiences any of the following symptoms: irritability, hyperactivity, abnormal sleep, high-pitched cry, uncontrollable shaking of a part of the body, vomiting, diarrhea, or failure to gain weight. Your doctor or pharmacist will give you the manufacturer's patient information sheet (Medication Guide) when you begin treatment with acetaminophen and codeine and each time you refill your prescription. Read the information carefully and ask your doctor or pharmacist if you have any questions. You can also visit the Food and Drug Administration (FDA) website ( http://www.fda.gov/Drugs/DrugSafety/ucm085729.htm ) or the manufacturer's website to obtain the Medication Guide. Why is this medication prescribed? The combination of acetaminophen and codeine is used to relieve mild to moderate pain. Acetaminophen is in a class of medications called analgesics (pain relievers) and antipyretics (fever reducers). It works by changing the way the body senses pain and by cooling the body. Codeine belongs to a class of medications called opiate (narcotic) analgesics and to a class of medications called antitussives. When codeine is used to treat pain, it works by changing the way the brain and nervous system respond to pain. When codeine is used to reduce coughing, it works by decreasing the activity in the part of the brain that causes coughing. How should this medicine be used? The combination of acetaminophen and codeine comes as a tablet, capsule, and liquid to take by mouth. It usually is taken every 4 hours as needed. Follow the directions on your prescription label carefully, and ask your doctor or pharmacist to explain any part you do not understand. Take acetaminophen and codeine exactly as directed. If you have taken acetaminophen and codeine for several weeks or longer, do not stop taking the medication without talking to your doctor. Your doctor may decrease your dose gradually. If you suddenly stop taking acetaminophen and codeine, you may experience withdrawal symptoms such as restlessness, widened pupils (black circles in the center of the eyes), teary eyes, irritability, anxiety, runny nose, difficulty falling asleep or staying asleep, yawning, sweating, fast breathing, fast heartbeat, chills, nausea, loss of appetite, vomiting, diarrhea, stomach cramps, or muscle aches. Other uses for this medicine This medication may be prescribed for other uses; ask your doctor or pharmacist for more information. What special precautions should I follow? Before taking acetaminophen and codeine, tell your doctor and pharmacist if you are allergic to acetaminophen, codeine, sulfite, any other medications, or any of the ingredients in acetaminophen and codeine products. Ask your doctor or pharmacist for a list of the ingredients. Tell your doctor or pharmacist if you are taking the following medications or have stopped taking them within the past two weeks: isocarboxazid (Marplan), linezolid (Zyvox), methylene blue, phenelzine (Nardil), selegiline (Eldepryl, Emsam, Zelaplar), or tranylcypromine (Parnate).. Tell your doctor and pharmacist what prescription and nonprescription medications, vitamins, nutritional supplements, and herbal products you are taking or plan to take while taking acetaminophen and codeine. Your doctor may need to change the doses of your medications or monitor you carefully for side effects. The following nonprescription products may interact with acetaminophen and codeine: allergy medications (diphenhydramine, loratadine, fexofenadine, chlorpheniramine or cetirizine). Be sure to let your doctor and pharmacist know that you are taking these medications before you start taking acetaminophen and codeine. Do not start any of these medications while taking acetaminophen and codeine without discussing with your healthcare provider. tell your doctor if you have any of the conditions mentioned in the IMPORTANT WARNING section, a blockage or narrowing of your stomach or intestines, or paralytic ileus (condition in which digested food does not move through the intestines). Your doctor may tell you not to take acetaminophen and codeine if you have any of these conditions. tell your doctor if you have or have ever had seizures, difficulty urinating, or pancreas, gallbladder, or kidney disease. you should know that this medication may decrease fertility in men and women. Talk to your doctor about the risks of taking acetaminophen and codeine. tell your doctor if you are breastfeeding. You should not breastfeed while taking acetaminophen and codeine. Codeine can cause shallow breathing, difficulty or noisy breathing, confusion, more than usual sleepiness, trouble breastfeeding, or limpness in breastfed infants. if you are having surgery, including dental surgery, tell the doctor or dentist that you are taking acetaminophen and codeine. you should know that this medication may make you drowsy. Do not drive a car or operate machinery until you know how this medication affects you. you should know that acetaminophen and codeine may cause dizziness, lightheadedness, and fainting when you get up too quickly from a lying position. To avoid this problem, get out of bed slowly, resting your feet on the floor for a few minutes before standing up. What should I do if I forget a dose? This medication usually is taken as needed. If your doctor has told you to take acetaminophen and codeine regularly, take the missed dose as soon as you remember it. However, if it is almost time for the next dose, skip the missed dose and continue your regular dosing schedule. Do not take a double dose to make up for a missed one. What side effects can this medication cause? Acetaminophen and codeine may cause side effects. Tell your doctor if any of these symptoms are severe or do not go away: constipation difficulty urinating Some side effects can be serious. If you experience any of these symptoms or those mentioned in the IMPORTANT WARNING section, call your doctor immediately or get emergency medical help: nausea, vomiting, loss of appetite, weakness, or dizziness agitation, hallucinations (seeing things or hearing voices that do not exist), fever, sweating, confusion, fast heartbeat, shivering, severe muscle stiffness or twitching, loss of coordination, nausea, vomiting, or diarrhea red, peeling or blistering skin rash hives itching swelling of the face, throat, tongue, lips, eyes, hands, feet, ankles, or lower legs hoarseness difficulty breathing or swallowing inability to get or keep an erection irregular menstruation decreased sexual desire Acetaminophen and codeine may cause other side effects. Call your doctor if you have any unusual problems while you are taking this medication. If you experience a serious side effect, you or your doctor may send a report to the Food and Drug Administration's (FDA) MedWatch Adverse Event Reporting program online ( http://www.fda.gov/Safety/MedWatch ) or by phone (1-800-332-1088). What should I know about storage and disposal of this medication? Keep this medication in the container it came in, tightly closed, and out of reach of children. Store it at room temperature and away from excess heat and moisture (not in the bathroom). It is important to keep all medication out of sight and reach of children as many containers (such as weekly pill minders and those for eye drops, creams, patches, and inhalers) are not child-resistant and young children can open them easily. To protect young children from poisoning, always lock safety caps and immediately place the medication in a safe location – one that is up and away and out of their sight and reach. http://www.upandaway.org Unneeded medications should be disposed of in special ways to ensure that pets, children, and other people cannot consume them. However, you should not flush this medication down the toilet. Instead, the best way to dispose of your medication is through a medicine take-back program. Talk to your pharmacist or contact your local garbage/recycling department to learn about take-back programs in your community. See the FDA's Safe Disposal of Medicines website ( http://goo.gl/c4Rm4p ) for more information if you do not have access to a take-back program. In case of emergency/overdose In case of overdose, call the poison control helpline at 1-800-222-1222. Information is also available online at https://www.poisonhelp.org/help . If the victim has collapsed, had a seizure, has trouble breathing, or can't be awakened, immediately call emergency services at 911. While taking acetaminophen and codeine, you should talk to your doctor about having a rescue medication called naloxone readily available (e.g., home, office). Naloxone is used to reverse the life-threatening effects of an overdose. It works by blocking the effects of opiates to relieve dangerous symptoms caused by high levels of opiates in the blood. Your doctor may also prescribe you naloxone if you are living in a household where there are small children or someone who has abused street or prescription drugs. You should make sure that you and your family members, caregivers, or the people who spend time with you know how to recognize an overdose, how to use naloxone, and what to do until emergency medical help arrives. Your doctor or pharmacist will show you and your family members how to use the medication. Ask your pharmacist for the instructions or visit the manufacturer's website to get the instructions. If symptoms of an overdose occur, a friend or family member should give the first dose of naloxone, call 911 immediately, and stay with you and watch you closely until emergency medical help arrives. Your symptoms may return within a few minutes after you receive naloxone. If your symptoms return, the person should give you another dose of naloxone. Additional doses may be given every 2 to 3 minutes, if symptoms return before medical help arrives. If someone takes more than the recommended dose of acetaminophen and codeine, get medical help immediately, even if the person does not have any symptoms. Symptoms of overdose may include the following: nausea vomiting loss of appetite sweating unusual bleeding or bruising pain in upper right part of the stomach yellowing of skin or eyes slow or shallow breathing difficulty breathing sleepiness unable to respond or wake up loss of muscle tone narrowed or widened pupils cold and clammy skin fainting slow heartbeat What other information should I know? Keep all appointments with your doctor. Your doctor may order certain lab tests to check your body's response to acetaminophen and codeine. Before having any laboratory test (especially those that involve methylene blue), tell your doctor and the laboratory personnel that you are taking acetaminophen and codeine. Do not let anyone else take your medication. Acetaminophen and codeine is a controlled substance. Prescriptions may be refilled only a limited number of times; ask your pharmacist if you have any questions. It is important for you to keep a written list of all of the prescription and nonprescription (over-the-counter) medicines you are taking, as well as any products such as vitamins, minerals, or other dietary supplements. You should bring this list with you each time you visit a doctor or if you are admitted to a hospital. It is also important information to carry with you in case of emergencies. Brand names Capital ® &amp; Codeine Codrix ® ¶ Empracet ® (#3, #4) ¶ Papa-deine ® (#3, #4) ¶ Phenaphen ® with Codeine (#2, #3, #4) ¶ Proval ® #3 ¶ Tylenol ® with Codeine (#3, #4)

























[ Hydralazine pronounced as (hye dral' a zeen)  Hydralazine is used to treat high blood pressure. Hydralazine is in a class of medications called vasodilators. It works by relaxing the blood vessels so that blood can flow more easily through the body. High blood pressure is a common condition and when not treated, can cause damage to the brain, heart, blood vessels, kidneys and other parts of the body. Damage to these organs may cause heart disease, a heart attack, heart failure, stroke, kidney failure, loss of vision, and other problems. In addition to taking medication, making lifestyle changes will also help to control your blood pressure. These changes include eating a diet that is low in fat and salt, maintaining a healthy weight, exercising at least 30 minutes most days, not smoking, and using alcohol in moderation. How should this medicine be used? Hydralazine comes as a tablet to take by mouth. It usually is taken two to four a day. Take hydralazine at around the same times every day. Follow the directions on your prescription label carefully, and ask your doctor or pharmacist to explain any part you do not understand. Take hydralazine exactly as directed. Do not take more or less of it or take it more often than prescribed by your doctor. Hydralazine controls high blood pressure but does not cure it. Continue to take hydralazine even if you feel well. Do not stop taking hydralazine without talking to your doctor. Other uses for this medicine Hydralazine is also used after heart valve replacement and in the treatment of heart failure. Talk to your doctor about the possible risks of using this medication for your condition. This medication is sometimes prescribed for other uses; ask your doctor or pharmacist for more information. What special precautions should I follow? Before taking hydralazine, tell your doctor and pharmacist if you are allergic to hydralazine, aspirin, tartrazine (a yellow dye in some processed foods and medications), any other medications, or any of the ingredients in hydralazine tablets. Ask your pharmacist for a list of the ingredients. tell your doctor and pharmacist what other prescription and nonprescription medications, vitamins, and nutritional supplements you are taking or plan to take. Be sure to mention any of the following: indomethacin (Indocin, Tivorbex), metoprolol (Lopressor, Toprol-XL, in Dutoprol), and propranolol (Inderal LA, Innopran XL, in Inderide). tell your doctor if you have ever had a heart attack, or have coronary artery disease, rheumatic heart disease, or heart, kidney or liver disease. tell your doctor if you are pregnant, plan to become pregnant, or are breast-feeding. If you become pregnant while taking hydralazine, call your doctor. if you are having surgery, including dental surgery, tell the doctor or dentist that you are taking hydralazine. ask your doctor about the safe use of alcohol while you are taking hydralazine. Alcohol can make the side effects from hydralazine worse. What special dietary instructions should I follow? Take hydralazine with meals or a snack. Your doctor may prescribe a low-salt or low-sodium diet. Follow these directions carefully. What should I do if I forget a dose? Take the missed dose as soon as you remember it. However, if it is almost time for the next dose, skip the missed dose and continue your regular dosing schedule. Do not take a double dose to make up for a missed one. What side effects can this medication cause? Hydralazine may cause side effects. Tell your doctor if any of these symptoms are severe or do not go away: flushing headache upset stomach vomiting loss of appetite diarrhea constipation eye tearing stuffy nose rash Some side effects can be serious. If you experience any of the following symptoms, call your doctor immediately: fainting joint or muscle pain fever rapid heartbeat chest pain swollen ankles or feet numbing or tingling in hands or feet If you experience a serious side effect, you or your doctor may send a report to the Food and Drug Administration's (FDA) MedWatch Adverse Event Reporting program online ( http://www.fda.gov/Safety/MedWatch ) or by phone (1-800-332-1088). What should I know about storage and disposal of this medication? Keep this medication in the container it came in, tightly closed, and out of reach of children. Store at room temperature and away from excess heat and moisture (not in the bathroom). Unneeded medications should be disposed of in special ways to ensure that pets, children, and other people cannot consume them. However, you should not flush this medication down the toilet. Instead, the best way to dispose of your medication is through a medicine take-back program. Talk to your pharmacist or contact your local garbage/recycling department to learn about take-back programs in your community. See the FDA's Safe Disposal of Medicines website ( http://goo.gl/c4Rm4p ) for more information if you do not have access to a take-back program. It is important to keep all medication out of sight and reach of children as many containers (such as weekly pill minders and those for eye drops, creams, patches, and inhalers) are not child-resistant and young children can open them easily. To protect young children from poisoning, always lock safety caps and immediately place the medication in a safe location – one that is up and away and out of their sight and reach. http://www.upandaway.org In case of emergency/overdose In case of overdose, call the poison control helpline at 1-800-222-1222. Information is also available online at https://www.poisonhelp.org/help . If the victim has collapsed, had a seizure, has trouble breathing, or can't be awakened, immediately call emergency services at 911. What other information should I know? Keep all appointments with your doctor and the laboratory. Your blood pressure should be checked regularly to determine your response to hydralazine. Your doctor may ask you to check your blood pressure daily. Ask your doctor or pharmacist to teach you how. Do not let anyone else take your medication. Ask your pharmacist any questions you have about refilling your prescription. It is important for you to keep a written list of all of the prescription and nonprescription (over-the-counter) medicines you are taking, as well as any products such as vitamins, minerals, or other dietary supplements. You should bring this list with you each time you visit a doctor or if you are admitted to a hospital. It is also important information to carry with you in case of emergencies. Brand names Apresoline ® ¶ Dralzine ® ¶

[ Hydrochlorothiazide pronounced as (hye'' droe klor'' oh thye' a zide)  Hydrochlorothiazide is used alone or in combination with other medications to treat high blood pressure. Hydrochlorothiazide is used to treat edema (fluid retention; excess fluid held in body tissues) caused by various medical problems, including heart, kidney, and liver disease and to treat edema caused by using certain medications including estrogen and corticosteroids. Hydrochlorothiazide is in a class of medications called diuretics ('water pills'). It works by causing the kidneys to get rid of unneeded water and salt from the body into the urine. High blood pressure is a common condition and when not treated, can cause damage to the brain, heart, blood vessels, kidneys and other parts of the body. Damage to these organs may cause heart disease, a heart attack, heart failure, stroke, kidney failure, loss of vision, and other problems. In addition to taking medication, making lifestyle changes will also help to control your blood pressure. These changes include eating a diet that is low in fat and salt, maintaining a healthy weight, exercising at least 30 minutes most days, not smoking, and using alcohol in moderation. How should this medicine be used? Hydrochlorothiazide comes as a tablet, capsule, and solution (liquid) to take by mouth. It usually is taken once or twice a day. When used to treat edema, hydrochlorothiazide may be taken daily or only on certain days of the week. Follow the directions on your prescription label carefully, and ask your doctor or pharmacist to explain any part you do not understand. Take hydrochlorothiazide exactly as directed. Do not take more or less of it or take it more often than prescribed by your doctor. Hydrochlorothiazide controls high blood pressure but does not cure it. Continue to take hydrochlorothiazide even if you feel well. Do not stop taking hydrochlorothiazide without talking to your doctor. Other uses for this medicine Hydrochlorothiazide may also be used to treat patients with diabetes insipidus and to prevent kidney stones in patients with high levels of calcium in their blood. Talk to your doctor about the possible risks of using this medicine for your condition. This medicine is sometimes prescribed for other uses; ask your doctor or pharmacist for more information. What special precautions should I follow? Before taking hydrochlorothiazide, tell your doctor and pharmacist if you are allergic to hydrochlorothiazide, 'sulfa drugs', penicillin, or any other drugs. tell your doctor and pharmacist what other prescription and nonprescription medications, vitamins, nutritional supplements, and herbal products you are taking or plan to take. Be sure to mention any of the following: barbiturates such as phenobarbital and secobarbital (Seconal); corticosteroids such as betamethasone (Celestone), budesonide (Entocort), cortisone (Cortone), dexamethasone (Decadron, Dexpak, Dexasone, others), fludrocortisone (Florinef), hydrocortisone (Cortef, Hydrocortone), methylprednisolone (Medrol, Meprolone, others), prednisolone (Prelone, others), prednisone (Deltasone, Meticorten, Sterapred, others), and triamcinolone (Aristocort, Azmacort); corticotropin (ACTH, H.P., Acthar Gel); insulin and oral medications for diabetes; lithium (Eskalith, Lithobid); medications for high blood pressure or pain; nonsteroidal anti-inflammatory drugs (NSAIDs) such as ibuprofen (Advil, Motrin, others) and naproxen (Aleve, Naprosyn, others). Your doctor may need to change the doses of your medications or monitor you carefully for side effects. if you are taking cholestyramine or colestipol, take them 1 hour before or 4 hours after taking hydrochlorothiazide. tell your doctor if you have kidney disease. Your doctor may tell you not to take hydrochlorothiazide. tell your doctor if you have or have ever had diabetes, asthma, gout, systemic lupus erythematosus (SLE, a chronic inflammatory condition), high cholesterol, or kidney or liver disease. tell your doctor if you are pregnant, plan to become pregnant, or are breastfeeding. If you become pregnant while taking hydrochlorothiazide, call your doctor immediately. plan to avoid unnecessary or prolonged exposure to sunlight and to wear protective clothing, sunglasses, and sunscreen. Hydrochlorothiazide may make your skin sensitive to sunlight and increase your risk of a certain types of skin cancer. Your doctor will check your skin for skin cancers during your treatment with hydrochlorothiazide. Call your doctor if you notice any new skin changes or growths. you should know that hydrochlorothiazide may cause dizziness, lightheadedness, and fainting when you get up too quickly from a lying position. This is more common when you first start taking hydrochlorothiazide. To avoid this problem, get out of bed slowly, resting your feet on the floor for a few minutes before standing up. Alcohol can add to these side effects. What special dietary instructions should I follow? If your doctor prescribes a low-salt or low-sodium diet, or to eat or drink increased amounts of potassium-rich foods (e.g., bananas, prunes, raisins, and orange juice) in your diet, follow these instructions carefully. What should I do if I forget a dose? Take the missed dose as soon as you remember it. However, if it is almost time for your next dose, skip the missed dose and continue your regular dosing schedule. Do not take a double dose to make up for a missed one. What side effects can this medication cause? Tell your doctor if any of these symptoms are severe or do not go away: frequent urination diarrhea loss of appetite headache hair loss If you experience any of the following symptoms, call your doctor immediately or get emergency medical treatment: dry mouth; thirst; nausea; vomiting; weakness, tiredness; drowsiness; restlessness; confusion; muscle weakness, pain, or cramps; fast heartbeat and other signs of dehydration and electrolyte imbalance blisters or peeling skin hives rash itching difficulty breathing or swallowing fever, sore throat, chills, and other signs of infection unusual bleeding or bruising ongoing pain that begins in the stomach area, but may spread to the back joint pain or swelling changes in vision, eye pain, or swelling or redness in or around the eye If you experience a serious side effect, you or your doctor may send a report to the Food and Drug Administration's (FDA) MedWatch Adverse Event Reporting program online ( http://www.fda.gov/Safety/MedWatch ) or by phone (1-800-332-1088). What should I know about storage and disposal of this medication? Keep this medicine in the container it came in, tightly closed, and out of reach of children. Store it at room temperature and away from excess heat and moisture (not in the bathroom). Do not allow the liquid or capsules to freeze. It is important to keep all medication out of sight and reach of children as many containers (such as weekly pill minders and those for eye drops, creams, patches, and inhalers) are not child-resistant and young children can open them easily. To protect young children from poisoning, always lock safety caps and immediately place the medication in a safe location – one that is up and away and out of their sight and reach. http://www.upandaway.org Unneeded medications should be disposed of in special ways to ensure that pets, children, and other people cannot consume them. However, you should not flush this medication down the toilet. Instead, the best way to dispose of your medication is through a medicine take-back program. Talk to your pharmacist or contact your local garbage/recycling department to learn about take-back programs in your community. See the FDA's Safe Disposal of Medicines website ( http://goo.gl/c4Rm4p ) for more information if you do not have access to a take-back program. In case of emergency/overdose In case of overdose, call the poison control helpline at 1-800-222-1222. Information is also available online at https://www.poisonhelp.org/help . If the victim has collapsed, had a seizure, has trouble breathing, or can't be awakened, immediately call emergency services at 911. What other information should I know? Keep all appointments with your doctor and the laboratory. Your blood pressure should be checked regularly, and blood tests should be done occasionally. Before having any laboratory test, tell your doctor and the laboratory personnel that you are taking hydrochlorothiazide. Do not let anyone else take your medicine. Ask your pharmacist any questions you have about refilling your prescription. It is important for you to keep a written list of all of the prescription and nonprescription (over-the-counter) medicines you are taking, as well as any products such as vitamins, minerals, or other dietary supplements. You should bring this list with you each time you visit a doctor or if you are admitted to a hospital. It is also important information to carry with you in case of emergencies. Brand names Esidrix ® ¶ Hydrodiuril ® ¶ Microzide ® Oretic ® Zide ® ¶

[ Hydralazine pronounced as (hye dral' a zeen)  Hydralazine is used to treat high blood pressure. Hydralazine is in a class of medications called vasodilators. It works by relaxing the blood vessels so that blood can flow more easily through the body. High blood pressure is a common condition and when not treated, can cause damage to the brain, heart, blood vessels, kidneys and other parts of the body. Damage to these organs may cause heart disease, a heart attack, heart failure, stroke, kidney failure, loss of vision, and other problems. In addition to taking medication, making lifestyle changes will also help to control your blood pressure. These changes include eating a diet that is low in fat and salt, maintaining a healthy weight, exercising at least 30 minutes most days, not smoking, and using alcohol in moderation. How should this medicine be used? Hydralazine comes as a tablet to take by mouth. It usually is taken two to four a day. Take hydralazine at around the same times every day. Follow the directions on your prescription label carefully, and ask your doctor or pharmacist to explain any part you do not understand. Take hydralazine exactly as directed. Do not take more or less of it or take it more often than prescribed by your doctor. Hydralazine controls high blood pressure but does not cure it. Continue to take hydralazine even if you feel well. Do not stop taking hydralazine without talking to your doctor. Other uses for this medicine Hydralazine is also used after heart valve replacement and in the treatment of heart failure. Talk to your doctor about the possible risks of using this medication for your condition. This medication is sometimes prescribed for other uses; ask your doctor or pharmacist for more information. What special precautions should I follow? Before taking hydralazine, tell your doctor and pharmacist if you are allergic to hydralazine, aspirin, tartrazine (a yellow dye in some processed foods and medications), any other medications, or any of the ingredients in hydralazine tablets. Ask your pharmacist for a list of the ingredients. tell your doctor and pharmacist what other prescription and nonprescription medications, vitamins, and nutritional supplements you are taking or plan to take. Be sure to mention any of the following: indomethacin (Indocin, Tivorbex), metoprolol (Lopressor, Toprol-XL, in Dutoprol), and propranolol (Inderal LA, Innopran XL, in Inderide). tell your doctor if you have ever had a heart attack, or have coronary artery disease, rheumatic heart disease, or heart, kidney or liver disease. tell your doctor if you are pregnant, plan to become pregnant, or are breast-feeding. If you become pregnant while taking hydralazine, call your doctor. if you are having surgery, including dental surgery, tell the doctor or dentist that you are taking hydralazine. ask your doctor about the safe use of alcohol while you are taking hydralazine. Alcohol can make the side effects from hydralazine worse. What special dietary instructions should I follow? Take hydralazine with meals or a snack. Your doctor may prescribe a low-salt or low-sodium diet. Follow these directions carefully. What should I do if I forget a dose? Take the missed dose as soon as you remember it. However, if it is almost time for the next dose, skip the missed dose and continue your regular dosing schedule. Do not take a double dose to make up for a missed one. What side effects can this medication cause? Hydralazine may cause side effects. Tell your doctor if any of these symptoms are severe or do not go away: flushing headache upset stomach vomiting loss of appetite diarrhea constipation eye tearing stuffy nose rash Some side effects can be serious. If you experience any of the following symptoms, call your doctor immediately: fainting joint or muscle pain fever rapid heartbeat chest pain swollen ankles or feet numbing or tingling in hands or feet If you experience a serious side effect, you or your doctor may send a report to the Food and Drug Administration's (FDA) MedWatch Adverse Event Reporting program online ( http://www.fda.gov/Safety/MedWatch ) or by phone (1-800-332-1088). What should I know about storage and disposal of this medication? Keep this medication in the container it came in, tightly closed, and out of reach of children. Store at room temperature and away from excess heat and moisture (not in the bathroom). Unneeded medications should be disposed of in special ways to ensure that pets, children, and other people cannot consume them. However, you should not flush this medication down the toilet. Instead, the best way to dispose of your medication is through a medicine take-back program. Talk to your pharmacist or contact your local garbage/recycling department to learn about take-back programs in your community. See the FDA's Safe Disposal of Medicines website ( http://goo.gl/c4Rm4p ) for more information if you do not have access to a take-back program. It is important to keep all medication out of sight and reach of children as many containers (such as weekly pill minders and those for eye drops, creams, patches, and inhalers) are not child-resistant and young children can open them easily. To protect young children from poisoning, always lock safety caps and immediately place the medication in a safe location – one that is up and away and out of their sight and reach. http://www.upandaway.org In case of emergency/overdose In case of overdose, call the poison control helpline at 1-800-222-1222. Information is also available online at https://www.poisonhelp.org/help . If the victim has collapsed, had a seizure, has trouble breathing, or can't be awakened, immediately call emergency services at 911. What other information should I know? Keep all appointments with your doctor and the laboratory. Your blood pressure should be checked regularly to determine your response to hydralazine. Your doctor may ask you to check your blood pressure daily. Ask your doctor or pharmacist to teach you how. Do not let anyone else take your medication. Ask your pharmacist any questions you have about refilling your prescription. It is important for you to keep a written list of all of the prescription and nonprescription (over-the-counter) medicines you are taking, as well as any products such as vitamins, minerals, or other dietary supplements. You should bring this list with you each time you visit a doctor or if you are admitted to a hospital. It is also important information to carry with you in case of emergencies. Brand names Apresoline ® ¶ Dralzine ® ¶

[ Hydralazine pronounced as (hye dral' a zeen)  Hydralazine is used to treat high blood pressure. Hydralazine is in a class of medications called vasodilators. It works by relaxing the blood vessels so that blood can flow more easily through the body. High blood pressure is a common condition and when not treated, can cause damage to the brain, heart, blood vessels, kidneys and other parts of the body. Damage to these organs may cause heart disease, a heart attack, heart failure, stroke, kidney failure, loss of vision, and other problems. In addition to taking medication, making lifestyle changes will also help to control your blood pressure. These changes include eating a diet that is low in fat and salt, maintaining a healthy weight, exercising at least 30 minutes most days, not smoking, and using alcohol in moderation. How should this medicine be used? Hydralazine comes as a tablet to take by mouth. It usually is taken two to four a day. Take hydralazine at around the same times every day. Follow the directions on your prescription label carefully, and ask your doctor or pharmacist to explain any part you do not understand. Take hydralazine exactly as directed. Do not take more or less of it or take it more often than prescribed by your doctor. Hydralazine controls high blood pressure but does not cure it. Continue to take hydralazine even if you feel well. Do not stop taking hydralazine without talking to your doctor. Other uses for this medicine Hydralazine is also used after heart valve replacement and in the treatment of heart failure. Talk to your doctor about the possible risks of using this medication for your condition. This medication is sometimes prescribed for other uses; ask your doctor or pharmacist for more information. What special precautions should I follow? Before taking hydralazine, tell your doctor and pharmacist if you are allergic to hydralazine, aspirin, tartrazine (a yellow dye in some processed foods and medications), any other medications, or any of the ingredients in hydralazine tablets. Ask your pharmacist for a list of the ingredients. tell your doctor and pharmacist what other prescription and nonprescription medications, vitamins, and nutritional supplements you are taking or plan to take. Be sure to mention any of the following: indomethacin (Indocin, Tivorbex), metoprolol (Lopressor, Toprol-XL, in Dutoprol), and propranolol (Inderal LA, Innopran XL, in Inderide). tell your doctor if you have ever had a heart attack, or have coronary artery disease, rheumatic heart disease, or heart, kidney or liver disease. tell your doctor if you are pregnant, plan to become pregnant, or are breast-feeding. If you become pregnant while taking hydralazine, call your doctor. if you are having surgery, including dental surgery, tell the doctor or dentist that you are taking hydralazine. ask your doctor about the safe use of alcohol while you are taking hydralazine. Alcohol can make the side effects from hydralazine worse. What special dietary instructions should I follow? Take hydralazine with meals or a snack. Your doctor may prescribe a low-salt or low-sodium diet. Follow these directions carefully. What should I do if I forget a dose? Take the missed dose as soon as you remember it. However, if it is almost time for the next dose, skip the missed dose and continue your regular dosing schedule. Do not take a double dose to make up for a missed one. What side effects can this medication cause? Hydralazine may cause side effects. Tell your doctor if any of these symptoms are severe or do not go away: flushing headache upset stomach vomiting loss of appetite diarrhea constipation eye tearing stuffy nose rash Some side effects can be serious. If you experience any of the following symptoms, call your doctor immediately: fainting joint or muscle pain fever rapid heartbeat chest pain swollen ankles or feet numbing or tingling in hands or feet If you experience a serious side effect, you or your doctor may send a report to the Food and Drug Administration's (FDA) MedWatch Adverse Event Reporting program online ( http://www.fda.gov/Safety/MedWatch ) or by phone (1-800-332-1088). What should I know about storage and disposal of this medication? Keep this medication in the container it came in, tightly closed, and out of reach of children. Store at room temperature and away from excess heat and moisture (not in the bathroom). Unneeded medications should be disposed of in special ways to ensure that pets, children, and other people cannot consume them. However, you should not flush this medication down the toilet. Instead, the best way to dispose of your medication is through a medicine take-back program. Talk to your pharmacist or contact your local garbage/recycling department to learn about take-back programs in your community. See the FDA's Safe Disposal of Medicines website ( http://goo.gl/c4Rm4p ) for more information if you do not have access to a take-back program. It is important to keep all medication out of sight and reach of children as many containers (such as weekly pill minders and those for eye drops, creams, patches, and inhalers) are not child-resistant and young children can open them easily. To protect young children from poisoning, always lock safety caps and immediately place the medication in a safe location – one that is up and away and out of their sight and reach. http://www.upandaway.org In case of emergency/overdose In case of overdose, call the poison control helpline at 1-800-222-1222. Information is also available online at https://www.poisonhelp.org/help . If the victim has collapsed, had a seizure, has trouble breathing, or can't be awakened, immediately call emergency services at 911. What other information should I know? Keep all appointments with your doctor and the laboratory. Your blood pressure should be checked regularly to determine your response to hydralazine. Your doctor may ask you to check your blood pressure daily. Ask your doctor or pharmacist to teach you how. Do not let anyone else take your medication. Ask your pharmacist any questions you have about refilling your prescription. It is important for you to keep a written list of all of the prescription and nonprescription (over-the-counter) medicines you are taking, as well as any products such as vitamins, minerals, or other dietary supplements. You should bring this list with you each time you visit a doctor or if you are admitted to a hospital. It is also important information to carry with you in case of emergencies. Brand names Apresoline ® ¶ Dralzine ® ¶



[ Estrogen and Progestin (Oral Contraceptives) pronounced as (ess' troe jen) (proe jes tin) To use the sharing features on this page, please enable JavaScript. Why is this medication prescribed? How should this medicine be used? Other uses for this medicine What special precautions should I follow? What special dietary instructions should I follow? What should I do if I forget a dose? What side effects can this medication cause? What should I know about storage and disposal of this medication? In case of emergency/overdose What other information should I know? Other names IMPORTANT WARNING: Cigarette smoking increases the risk of serious side effects from oral contraceptives, including heart attacks, blood clots, and strokes. This risk is higher for women over 35 years of age and heavy smokers (15 or more cigarettes per day). If you take oral contraceptives, you should not smoke. Why is this medication prescribed? Oral contraceptives (birth-control pills) are used to prevent pregnancy. Estrogen and progestin are two female sex hormones. Combinations of estrogen and progestin work by preventing ovulation (the release of eggs from the ovaries). They also change the lining of the uterus (womb) to prevent pregnancy from developing and change the mucus at the cervix (opening of the uterus) to prevent sperm (male reproductive cells) from entering. Oral contraceptives are a very effective method of birth control, but they do not prevent the spread of human immunodeficiency virus (HIV, the virus that causes acquired immunodeficiency syndrome [AIDS]) and other sexually transmitted diseases. Some brands of oral contraceptives are also used to treat acne in certain patients. Oral contraceptives treat acne by decreasing the amounts of certain natural substances that can cause acne. Some oral contraceptives (Beyaz, Yaz) are also used to relieve the symptoms of premenstrual dysphoric disorder (physical and emotional symptoms that occur before the menstrual period each month) in women who have chosen to use an oral contraceptive to prevent pregnancy. How should this medicine be used? Oral contraceptives come in packets of 21, 28, or 91 tablets to take by mouth once a day, every day or almost every day of a regular cycle. To avoid nausea, take oral contraceptives with food or milk. Take your oral contraceptive at the same time every day. Follow the directions on your prescription label carefully, and ask your doctor or pharmacist to explain any part you do not understand. Take your oral contraceptive exactly as directed. Do not take more or less of it, take it more often, or take it for a longer time than prescribed by your doctor. Oral contraceptives come in many different brands. Different brands of oral contraceptives contain slightly different medications or doses, are taken in slightly different ways, and have different risks and benefits. Be sure that you know which brand of oral contraceptives you are using and exactly how you should use it. Ask your doctor or pharmacist for a copy of the manufacturer's information for the patient and read it carefully. If you have a 21-tablet packet, take 1 tablet daily for 21 days and then none for 7 days. Then start a new packet. If you have a 28-tablet packet, take 1 tablet daily for 28 days in a row in the order specified in your packet. Start a new packet the day after you take your 28th tablet. The tablets in most 28-tablet packets may have different colors. Many 28-tablet packets have certain color tablets that contain different amounts of estrogen and progestin, but also may have other color tablets which contain an inactive ingredient or a folate supplement. If you have a 91-day tablet packet, take 1 tablet daily for 91 days. Your packet will contain three trays of tablets. Start with the first tablet on the first tray and continue taking 1 tablet every day in the order specified on the packet until you have taken all of the tablets on all of the trays. The last set of tablets are a different color. These tablets may contain an inactive ingredient, or they may contain a very low dose of estrogen. Start your new packet the day after you take your 91st tablet. Your doctor will tell you when you should start taking your oral contraceptive. Oral contraceptives are usually started on the first or fifth day of your menstrual period or on the first Sunday after or on which bleeding begins. Your doctor will also tell you whether you need to use another method of birth control during the first 7 to 9 days that you take your oral contraceptive and will help you choose a method. Follow these directions carefully. You will probably experience withdrawal bleeding similar to a menstrual period while you are taking the inactive tablets or the low dose estrogen tablets or during the week that you do not take your oral contraceptive. If you are taking the type of packet that only contains active tablets, you will not experience any scheduled bleeding, but you may experience unexpected bleeding and spotting, especially at the beginning of your treatment. Be sure to start taking your new packet on schedule even if you are still bleeding. You may need to use a backup method of birth control if you vomit or have diarrhea while you are taking an oral contraceptive. Talk to your doctor about this before you begin to take your oral contraceptive so that you can prepare a backup method of birth control in case it is needed. If you vomit or have diarrhea while you are taking an oral contraceptive, call your doctor to find out how long you should use the backup method. If you have recently given birth, wait until 4 weeks after delivery to begin taking oral contraceptives. If you have had an abortion or miscarriage, talk to your doctor about when you should begin taking oral contraceptives. Oral contraceptives will work only as long as they are taken regularly. Continue to take oral contraceptives every day even if you are spotting or bleeding, have an upset stomach, or do not think that you are likely to become pregnant. Do not stop taking oral contraceptives without talking to your doctor. Other uses for this medicine Oral contraceptives are also sometimes used to treat heavy or irregular menstruation and endometriosis (a condition in which the type of tissue that lines the uterus [womb] grows in other areas of the body and causes pain, heavy or irregular menstruation [periods], and other symptoms). Talk to your doctor about the risks of using this medication for your condition. This medication may be prescribed for other uses; ask your doctor or pharmacist for more information. What special precautions should I follow? Before taking oral contraceptives, tell your doctor and pharmacist if you are allergic to estrogen, progestin, or any other medications. tell your doctor and pharmacist what prescription and nonprescription medications, vitamins, and nutritional supplements you are taking. Be sure to mention any of the following: acetaminophen (APAP, Tylenol); antibiotics such as ampicillin (Principen), clarithromycin (Biaxin),erythromycin (E.E.S., E-Mycin, Erythrocin), isoniazid (INH, Nydrazid), metronidazole (Flagyl),minocycline (Dynacin, Minocin), rifabutin (Mycobutin), rifampin (Rifadin, Rimactane), tetracycline (Sumycin), and troleandomycin (TAO) (not available in the U.S.); anticoagulants ('blood thinners') such as warfarin (Coumadin); antifungals such as griseofulvin (Fulvicin, Grifulvin, Grisactin), fluconazole (Diflucan), itraconazole (Sporanox), and ketoconazole (Nizoral); atorvastatin (Lipitor); clofibrate (Atromid-S); cyclosporine (Neoral, Sandimmune); bosentan (Tracleer); cimetidine (Tagamet); danazol (Danocrine); delavirdine (Rescriptor); diltiazem (Cardizem, Dilacor, Tiazac); fluoxetine (Prozac, Sarafem, in Symbyax); HIV protease inhibitors such as indinavir (Crixivan) and ritonavir (Norvir); medications for seizures such as carbamazepine (Tegretol), felbamate (Felbatol), lamotrigine (Lamictal), oxcarbazepine (Trileptal), phenobarbital (Luminal, Solfoton), phenytoin (Dilantin), primidone (Mysoline), and topiramate (Topamax); modafinil (Provigil); morphine (Kadian, MS Contin, MSIR, others); nefazodone; rifampin (Rimactane, in Rifadin, in Rifater); oral steroids such as dexamethasone (Decadron, Dexone), methylprednisolone (Medrol), prednisone (Deltasone), and prednisolone (Prelone); temazepam (Restoril); theophylline (Theobid, Theo-Dur); thyroid medication such as levothyroxine (Levothroid, Levoxyl, Synthroid); verapamil (Calan, Covera, Isoptin, Verelan); vitamin C; and zafirlukast (Accolate). Your doctor may need to change the doses of your medications or monitor you carefully for side effects. if you are taking oral contraceptives that contain drosperinone (Beyaz, Gianvi, Loryna, Ocella, Safyral, Syeda, Yasmin, Yaz, and Zarah) tell your doctor and pharmacist if you are taking any of the medications listed above or any of the following: angiotensin-converting enzyme (ACE) inhibitors such as benazepril (Lotensin), enalapril (Vasotec), and lisinopril (Prinivil, Zestril); angiotensin II antagonists such as irbesartan (Avapro), losartan (Cozaar), and valsartan (Diovan); aspirin and other nonsteroidal anti-inflammatory drugs (NSAIDs) such as ibuprofen (Advil, Motrin) and naproxen (Aleve, Naprosyn); diuretics ('water pills') such as amiloride (Midamor), spironolactone (Aldactone), and triamterene (Dyrenium); eplerenone (Inspra); heparin; or potassium supplements. Before taking Beyaz or Safyral, also tell your doctor or pharmacist if you are taking cholestyramine (Locholest, Prevalite, Questran), a folate supplement, methotrexate (Trexall), pyrimethamine (Daraprim), sulfasalazine (Azulfidine), or valproic acid (Depakene, Stavzor). tell your doctor what herbal products you are taking, especially St. John's wort. tell your doctor if you have or have ever had blood clots in your legs, lungs, or eyes; thrombophilia (condition in which the blood clots easily); coronary artery disease (clogged blood vessels leading to the heart); cerebrovascular disease (clogging or weakening of the blood vessels within the brain or leading to the brain); stroke or mini-stroke; an irregular heartbeat; heart disease; a heart attack; chest pain; diabetes that has affected your circulation; headaches that come along with other symptoms such as vision changes, weakness, and dizziness; high blood pressure; breast cancer; cancer of the lining of the uterus, cervix, or vagina; liver cancer, liver tumors, or other types of liver disease; yellowing of the skin or eyes during pregnancy or while you were using hormonal contraceptives (birth control pills, patches, rings, implants, or injections); unexplained abnormal vaginal bleeding; adrenal insufficiency (condition in which the body does not produce enough of certain natural substances needed for important functions such as blood pressure); or kidney disease. Also tell your doctor if you have recently had surgery or have been unable to move around for any reason. Your doctor may tell you that you should not take certain types of oral contraceptives or that you should not take any type of oral contraceptive if you have or have had any of these conditions. Also tell your doctor if anyone in your family has had breast cancer, if you are overweight, and if you have or have ever had problems with your breasts such as lumps, an abnormal mammogram (breast x-ray), or fibrocystic breast disease (swollen, tender breasts and/or breast lumps that are not cancer); high blood cholesterol or fats; diabetes; asthma; toxemia (high blood pressure during pregnancy); heart attack; chest pain; seizures; migraine headaches; depression; gallbladder disease; jaundice (yellowing of the skin or eyes); and excessive weight gain and fluid retention (bloating) during the menstrual cycle. do not take oral contraceptives if you are pregnant, plan to become pregnant, or are breast-feeding. If you become pregnant while taking oral contraceptives, call your doctor immediately. if you miss periods while you are taking oral contraceptives, you may be pregnant. If you are using a 91-tablet packet and you miss one period, call your doctor. If you are using another type of packet according to the directions and you miss one period, you may continue to take your tablets. However, if you have not taken your tablets as directed and you miss one period or if you have taken your tablets as directed and you miss two periods, call your doctor and use another method of birth control until you have a pregnancy test. If you are using a 28-tablet packet that contains only active tablets, you will not expect to have periods on a regular basis, so it may be hard to tell if you are pregnant. If you are using this type of oral contraceptive, call your doctor and have a pregnancy test if you experience symptoms of pregnancy such as nausea, vomiting, and breast tenderness, or if you suspect you may be pregnant. if you are having surgery, including dental surgery, tell the doctor or dentist that you are taking oral contraceptives. you should know that oral contraceptives may cause a spotty darkening of the skin, especially on the face. If you have experienced changes in your skin color during pregnancy or while you were taking oral contraceptives in the past, you should avoid exposure to real or artificial sunlight while you are taking oral contraceptives. Wear protective clothing, sunglasses, and sunscreen. tell your doctor and pharmacist if you wear contact lenses. If you notice changes in vision or ability to wear your lenses while taking oral contraceptives, see an eye doctor. What special dietary instructions should I follow? Unless your doctor tells you otherwise, continue your normal diet. What should I do if I forget a dose? If you miss doses of your oral contraceptive, you may not be protected from pregnancy. You may need to use a backup method of birth control for 7 to 9 days or until the end of the cycle. Every brand of oral contraceptives comes with specific directions to follow if you miss one or more doses. Carefully read the directions in the manufacturer's information for the patient that came with your oral contraceptive. If you have any questions, call your doctor or pharmacist. Continue to take your tablets as scheduled and use a backup method of birth control until your questions are answered. What side effects can this medication cause? Oral contraceptives may cause side effects. Tell your doctor if any of these symptoms are severe or do not go away: nausea vomiting stomach cramps or bloating diarrhea constipation gingivitis (swelling of the gum tissue) increased or decreased appetite weight gain or weight loss brown or black skin patches acne hair growth in unusual places bleeding or spotting between menstrual periods changes in menstrual flow painful or missed periods breast tenderness, enlargement, or discharge swelling, redness, irritation, burning, or itching of the vagina white vaginal discharge Some side effects can be serious. The following symptoms are uncommon, but if you experience any of them, call your doctor immediately: severe headache severe vomiting speech problems dizziness or faintness weakness or numbness of an arm or leg crushing chest pain or chest heaviness coughing up blood shortness of breath leg pain partial or complete loss of vision double vision bulging eyes severe stomach pain yellowing of the skin or eyes loss of appetite extreme tiredness, weakness, or lack of energy fever dark-colored urine light-colored stool swelling of the hands, feet, ankles, or lower legs depression, especially if you also have trouble sleeping, tiredness, loss of energy, or other mood changes unusual bleeding rash menstrual bleeding that is unusually heavy or that lasts for longer than 7 days in a row Oral contraceptives may increase the chance that you will develop liver tumors. These tumors are not a form of cancer, but they can break and cause serious bleeding inside the body. Oral contraceptives may also increase the chance that you will develop breast or liver cancer, or have a heart attack, a stroke, or a serious blood clot. Talk to your doctor about the risks of using oral contraceptives. Some studies show that women who take oral contraceptives that contain drosperinone (Beyaz, Gianvi, Loryna, Ocella, Safyral, Syeda, Yasmin, Yaz, and Zarah) may be more likely to develop deep vein thrombosis (a serious or life-threatening condition in which blood clots that form in the veins, usually in the legs and may move through the body to the lungs) than women who take oral contraceptives that do not contain drosperinone. However, other studies do not show this increased risk. Before you begin taking oral contraceptives, talk to your doctor about the risk that you will develop blood clots and about which oral contraceptive or other method of birth control may be the best choice for you. Oral contraceptives may cause other side effects. Call your doctor if you have any unusual problems while taking this medication. If you experience a serious side effect, you or your doctor may send a report to the Food and Drug Administration's (FDA) MedWatch Adverse Event Reporting program online ( http://www.fda.gov/Safety/MedWatch ) or by phone (1-800-332-1088). What should I know about storage and disposal of this medication? Keep this medication in the packet it came in, tightly closed, and out of reach of children. Store it at room temperature and away from excess heat and moisture (not in the bathroom). Unneeded medications should be disposed of in special ways to ensure that pets, children, and other people cannot consume them. However, you should not flush this medication down the toilet. Instead, the best way to dispose of your medication is through a medicine take-back program. Talk to your pharmacist or contact your local garbage/recycling department to learn about take-back programs in your community. See the FDA's Safe Disposal of Medicines website ( http://goo.gl/c4Rm4p ) for more information if you do not have access to a take-back program. It is important to keep all medication out of sight and reach of children as many containers (such as weekly pill minders and those for eye drops, creams, patches, and inhalers) are not child-resistant and young children can open them easily. To protect young children from poisoning, always lock safety caps and immediately place the medication in a safe location – one that is up and away and out of their sight and reach. http://www.upandaway.org In case of emergency/overdose In case of overdose, call the poison control helpline at 1-800-222-1222. Information is also available online at https://www.poisonhelp.org/help . If the victim has collapsed, had a seizure, has trouble breathing, or can't be awakened, immediately call emergency services at 911. Symptoms of overdose may include: nausea vaginal bleeding What other information should I know? Keep all appointments with your doctor and the laboratory. You should have a complete physical examination every year, including blood pressure measurements, breast and pelvic exams, and a Pap test. Follow your doctor's directions for examining your breasts; report any lumps immediately. Before you have any laboratory tests, tell the laboratory personnel that you take oral contraceptives. If you wish to stop taking oral contraceptives and become pregnant, your doctor may tell you to use another method of birth control until you begin to menstruate regularly again. It may take a long time for you to become pregnant after you stop taking oral contraceptives, especially if you have never had a baby or if you had irregular, infrequent, or complete absence of menstrual periods before taking oral contraceptives. However, it is possible to become pregnant within days of stopping certain oral contraceptives. If you want to stop taking oral contraceptives but do not want to become pregnant, you should begin using another type of birth control as soon as you stop taking oral contraceptives. Discuss any questions that you may have with your doctor. Oral contraceptives may decrease the amount of folate in your body. Folate is important for the development of a healthy baby, so you should talk to your doctor if you want to become pregnant soon after you stop taking oral contraceptives. Your doctor may recommend that you take a folate supplement or an oral contraceptive that contains a folate supplement (Beyaz, Safyral). Do not let anyone else take your medication. Ask your pharmacist any questions you have about refilling your prescription. It is important for you to keep a written list of all of the prescription and nonprescription (over-the-counter) medicines you are taking, as well as any products such as vitamins, minerals, or other dietary supplements. You should bring this list with you each time you visit a doctor or if you are admitted to a hospital. It is also important information to carry with you in case of emergencies.













[ Fluoride pronounced as (floor' ide) To use the sharing features on this page, please enable JavaScript. Why is this medication prescribed? How should this medicine be used? What special precautions should I follow? What special dietary instructions should I follow? What should I do if I forget a dose? What side effects can this medication cause? What should I know about storage and disposal of this medication? In case of emergency/overdose What other information should I know? Brand names Why is this medication prescribed? Fluoride is used to prevent tooth decay. It is taken up by teeth and helps to strengthen teeth, resist acid, and block the cavity-forming action of bacteria. Fluoride usually is prescribed for children and adults whose homes have water that is not fluoridated (already has fluoride added). This medication is sometimes prescribed for other uses; ask your doctor or pharmacist for more information. How should this medicine be used? Fluoride comes as a liquid, tablet, and chewable tablet to take by mouth. It usually is taken once daily. Follow the directions on your prescription label carefully, and ask your doctor or pharmacist to explain any part you do not understand. Take fluoride exactly as directed. Do not take more or less of it or take it more often than prescribed by your doctor. The fluoride liquid may be taken straight from the bottle or mixed with cereal, fruit juice, or other foods. Use a dropper or an oral syringe to measure out your dose. Tablets may be dissolved in the mouth, chewed, or added to drinking water or fruit juice. Tablets also may be added to water for use in infant formulas or other food. Fluoride helps to strengthen teeth and prevent cavities; it is not a substitute for brushing or flossing. What special precautions should I follow? Before taking fluoride, tell your doctor and pharmacist if you are allergic to fluoride, tartrazine (a yellow dye in some processed foods and drugs), or any other drugs. tell your doctor and pharmacist what prescription and nonprescription medications you are taking, especially vitamins. Do not take calcium, magnesium, or iron supplements while taking fluoride without checking with your doctor. tell your doctor if you are pregnant, plan to become pregnant, or are breast-feeding. If you become pregnant while taking fluoride, call your doctor. tell your doctor if you are on a low-sodium or sodium-free diet. What special dietary instructions should I follow? Do not eat or drink dairy products 1 hour before or 1 hour after taking fluoride. What should I do if I forget a dose? Take the missed dose as soon as you remember it. However, if it is almost time for the next dose, skip the missed dose and continue your regular dosing schedule. Do not take a double dose to make up for a missed one. What side effects can this medication cause? Fluoride may cause side effects. Tell your doctor if this symptom is severe or does not go away: staining of teeth If you experience any of the following symptoms, call your doctor immediately: unusual increase in saliva salty or soapy taste stomach pain upset stomach vomiting diarrhea rash weakness tremor seizures If you experience a serious side effect, you or your doctor may send a report to the Food and Drug Administration's (FDA) MedWatch Adverse Event Reporting program online ( http://www.fda.gov/Safety/MedWatch ) or by phone (1-800-332-1088). What should I know about storage and disposal of this medication? Keep this medication in the container it came in, tightly closed, and out of reach of children. Store it at room temperature and away from excess heat and moisture (not in the bathroom). It is important to keep all medication out of sight and reach of children as many containers (such as weekly pill minders and those for eye drops, creams, patches, and inhalers) are not child-resistant and young children can open them easily. To protect young children from poisoning, always lock safety caps and immediately place the medication in a safe location – one that is up and away and out of their sight and reach. http://www.upandaway.org Unneeded medications should be disposed of in special ways to ensure that pets, children, and other people cannot consume them. However, you should not flush this medication down the toilet. Instead, the best way to dispose of your medication is through a medicine take-back program. Talk to your pharmacist or contact your local garbage/recycling department to learn about take-back programs in your community. See the FDA's Safe Disposal of Medicines website ( http://goo.gl/c4Rm4p ) for more information if you do not have access to a take-back program. In case of emergency/overdose In case of overdose, call the poison control helpline at 1-800-222-1222. Information is also available online at https://www.poisonhelp.org/help . If the victim has collapsed, had a seizure, has trouble breathing, or can't be awakened, immediately call emergency services at 911. What other information should I know? Keep all appointments with your doctor. Do not let anyone else take your medication. Ask your pharmacist any questions you have about refilling your prescription. It is important for you to keep a written list of all of the prescription and nonprescription (over-the-counter) medicines you are taking, as well as any products such as vitamins, minerals, or other dietary supplements. You should bring this list with you each time you visit a doctor or if you are admitted to a hospital. It is also important information to carry with you in case of emergencies. Brand names ACT ® Advance White ® Aim ® AmerFresh ® AquaFresh ® Charm-Tex ® Clinpro 5000 ® Close Up ® Colgate ® Control Rx ® Crest ® Darby ® Dawn Mist ® Denti-Care ® Epiflur ® Fluor-a-Day ® FluoriSHIELD ® Gelato ® Glister ® Kolorz ® Listerine ® Ludent ® Mentadent ® Opalescence ® Oral Defense ® Oral-B ® Ora-Line ® Ortho Guard ® Pepsodent ® Peroxi-Care ® Pro-Den Rx ® Simply White ® Vortex ® Whole Care ® Xylishield ® Zooby ®







[ Phenylephrine pronounced as (fen il ef' rin)  Phenylephrine is used to relieve nasal discomfort caused by colds, allergies, and hay fever. It is also used to relieve sinus congestion and pressure. Phenylephrine will relieve symptoms but will not treat the cause of the symptoms or speed recovery. Phenylephrine is in a class of medications called nasal decongestants. It works by reducing swelling of the blood vessels in the nasal passages. How should this medicine be used? Phenylephrine comes as a tablet, a liquid, or a dissolving strip to take by mouth. It is usually taken every 4 hours as needed. Follow the directions on your prescription label or the package label carefully, and ask your doctor or pharmacist to explain any part you do not understand. Take phenylephrine exactly as directed. Do not take more or less of it or take it more often than prescribed by your doctor or directed on the label. Phenylephrine comes alone and in combination with other medications. Ask your doctor or pharmacist for advice on which product is best for your symptoms. Check nonprescription cough and cold product labels carefully before using two or more products at the same time. These products may contain the same active ingredient(s) and taking them together could cause you to receive an overdose. This is especially important if you will be giving cough and cold medications to a child. Nonprescription cough and cold combination products, including products that contain phenylephrine, can cause serious side effects or death in young children. Do not give these products to children younger than 4 years of age. If you give these products to children 4 to 11 years of age, use caution and follow the package directions carefully. If you are giving phenylephrine or a combination product that contains phenylephrine to a child, read the package label carefully to be sure that it is the right product for a child of that age. Do not give phenylephrine products that are made for adults to children. Before you give a phenylephrine product to a child, check the package label to find out how much medication the child should receive. Give the dose that matches the child's age on the chart. Ask the child's doctor if you don't know how much medication to give the child. If you are taking the liquid, do not use a household spoon to measure your dose. Use the measuring spoon or cup that came with the medication or use a spoon made especially for measuring medication. If your symptoms do not get better within 7 days or if you have a fever, stop taking phenylephrine and call your doctor. If you are taking the dissolving strips, place one strip on your tongue and allow it to dissolve. Other uses for this medicine This medication may be prescribed for other uses; ask your doctor or pharmacist for more information. What special precautions should I follow? Before taking phenylephrine, tell your doctor and pharmacist if you are allergic to phenylephrine, any other medications, or any of the ingredients in phenylephrine preparations. do not take phenylephrine if you are taking a monoamine oxidase (MAO) inhibitor, such as isocarboxazid (Marplan), phenelzine (Nardil), selegiline (Eldepryl, Emsam, Zelapar), and tranylcypromine (Parnate), or if you have stopped taking one of these medications within the past 2 weeks. tell your doctor and pharmacist what other prescription and nonprescription medications, vitamins, nutritional supplements, and herbal products you are taking or plan to take. tell your doctor if you have or have ever had high blood pressure, diabetes, trouble urinating because of an enlarged prostate gland, or thyroid or heart disease. tell your doctor if you are pregnant, plan to become pregnant, or are breast-feeding. If you become pregnant while taking phenylephrine, call your doctor. if you are having surgery, including dental surgery, tell the doctor or dentist that you are taking phenylephrine. if you have phenylketonuria (PKU, an inherited condition in which a special diet must be followed to prevent damage to your brain that can cause severe intellectual disability), you should know that some phenylephrine products may be sweetened with aspartame, a source of phenylalanine. What special dietary instructions should I follow? Unless your doctor tells you otherwise, continue your normal diet. What should I do if I forget a dose? This medication is usually taken as needed. If your doctor has told you to take phenylephrine regularly, take the missed dose as soon as you remember it. However, if it is almost time for the next dose, skip the missed dose and continue your regular dosing schedule. Do not take a double dose to make up for a missed one. What side effects can this medication cause? Phenylephrine may cause side effects. Some side effects can be serious. If you experience any of these symptoms, stop using phenylephrine and call your doctor: nervousness dizziness sleeplessness Phenylephrine may cause other side effects. Call your doctor if you have any unusual problems while taking this medication. If you experience a serious side effect, you or your doctor may send a report to the Food and Drug Administration's (FDA) MedWatch Adverse Event Reporting program online ( http://www.fda.gov/Safety/MedWatch ) or by phone (1-800-332-1088). What should I know about storage and disposal of this medication? Keep this medication in the container it came in, tightly closed, and out of reach of children. Store it at room temperature and away from excess heat and moisture (not in the bathroom). It is important to keep all medication out of sight and reach of children as many containers (such as weekly pill minders and those for eye drops, creams, patches, and inhalers) are not child-resistant and young children can open them easily. To protect young children from poisoning, always lock safety caps and immediately place the medication in a safe location – one that is up and away and out of their sight and reach. http://www.upandaway.org Unneeded medications should be disposed of in special ways to ensure that pets, children, and other people cannot consume them. However, you should not flush this medication down the toilet. Instead, the best way to dispose of your medication is through a medicine take-back program. Talk to your pharmacist or contact your local garbage/recycling department to learn about take-back programs in your community. See the FDA's Safe Disposal of Medicines website ( http://goo.gl/c4Rm4p ) for more information if you do not have access to a take-back program. In case of emergency/overdose In case of overdose, call the poison control helpline at 1-800-222-1222. Information is also available online at https://www.poisonhelp.org/help . If the victim has collapsed, had a seizure, has trouble breathing, or can't be awakened, immediately call emergency services at 911. What other information should I know? Ask your pharmacist any questions you have about phenylephrine. It is important for you to keep a written list of all of the prescription and nonprescription (over-the-counter) medicines you are taking, as well as any products such as vitamins, minerals, or other dietary supplements. You should bring this list with you each time you visit a doctor or if you are admitted to a hospital. It is also important information to carry with you in case of emergencies. Brand names Children's Sudafed PE Nasal Decongestant ® Lusonal ® § PediaCare Children's Decongestant ® Sudafed PE Congestion ® Suphedrin PE ®

[ Methyclothiazide pronounced as (meth i kloe thye' a zide)  Methyclothiazide is used to treat high blood pressure. Methyclothiazide is also used to treat edema (fluid retention; excess fluid held in body tissues) caused by various medical problems, including heart, kidney, and liver disease and to treat edema caused by using certain medications including estrogen and corticosteroids. Methyclothiazide is in a class of medications called diuretics ('water pills'). It works by causing the kidneys to get rid of unneeded water and salt from the body into the urine. High blood pressure is a common condition and when not treated, can cause damage to the brain, heart, blood vessels, kidneys and other parts of the body. Damage to these organs may cause heart disease, a heart attack, heart failure, stroke, kidney failure, loss of vision, and other problems. In addition to taking medication, making lifestyle changes will also help to control your blood pressure. These changes include eating a diet that is low in fat and salt, maintaining a healthy weight, exercising at least 30 minutes most days, not smoking, and using alcohol in moderation. How should this medicine be used? Methyclothiazide comes as a tablet to take by mouth. It usually is taken once a day in the morning. Take methyclothiazide around the same time every day. Follow the directions on your prescription label carefully, and ask your doctor or pharmacist to explain any part you do not understand. Take methyclothiazide exactly as directed. Do not take more or less of it or take it more often than prescribed by your doctor. Methyclothiazide controls high blood pressure and edema but does not cure these conditions. Continue to take methyclothiazide even if you feel well. Do not stop taking methyclothiazide without talking to your doctor. Other uses for this medicine Methyclothiazide may also be used to treat patients with diabetes insipidus and certain electrolyte disturbances and to prevent kidney stones in patients with high levels of calcium in their blood. Talk to your doctor about the possible risks of using this medicine for your condition. This medicine is sometimes prescribed for other uses; ask your doctor or pharmacist for more information. What special precautions should I follow? Before taking methyclothiazide, tell your doctor and pharmacist if you are allergic to methyclothiazide, sulfonamide medications, any other medications, or any of the ingredients in methyclothiazide tablets. Ask your pharmacist or check the patient information for a list of the ingredients. tell your doctor and pharmacist what prescription and nonprescription medications, vitamins, nutritional supplements, and herbal products you are taking or plan to take. Be sure to mention any of the following: barbiturates such as phenobarbital and secobarbital (Seconal); corticosteroids such as betamethasone (Celestone), budesonide (Entocort), cortisone (Cortone), dexamethasone (Decadron, Dexpak, Dexasone, others), fludrocortisone (Florinef), hydrocortisone (Cortef, Hydrocortone), methylprednisolone (Medrol, Meprolone, others), prednisolone (Prelone, others), prednisone (Rayos), and triamcinolone (Aristocort, Azmacort); corticotropin (ACTH, H.P., Acthar Gel); insulin and oral medications for diabetes; digoxin (Lanoxin), lithium (Lithobid), medications for high blood pressure, and nonsteroidal anti-inflammatory drugs (NSAIDs) such as ibuprofen (Advil, Motrin, others) and naproxen (Aleve, Naprosyn, others). Your doctor may need to change the doses of your medications or monitor you carefully for side effects. tell your doctor if you have kidney disease. Your doctor may tell you not to take methyclothiazide. tell your doctor if you have or have ever had asthma, diabetes, gout, high cholesterol, systemic lupus erythematosus (SLE, a chronic inflammatory condition), or liver disease. tell your doctor if you are pregnant, plan to become pregnant, or are breast-feeding. If you become pregnant while taking methyclothiazide, call your doctor immediately. plan to avoid unnecessary or prolonged exposure to sunlight and to wear protective clothing, sunglasses, and sunscreen. Methyclothiazide may make your skin sensitive to sunlight. you should know that methyclothiazide may cause dizziness, lightheadedness, and fainting when you get up too quickly from a lying position. This is more common when you first start taking methyclothiazide. To avoid this problem, get out of bed slowly, resting your feet on the floor for a few minutes before standing up. Alcohol can add to these side effects. What special dietary instructions should I follow? If your doctor prescribes a low-salt or low-sodium diet, or to eat or drink increased amounts of potassium-rich foods (e.g., bananas, prunes, raisins, and orange juice) in your diet, follow these instructions carefully. What should I do if I forget a dose? Take the missed dose as soon as you remember it. However, if it is almost time for your next dose, skip the missed dose and continue your regular dosing schedule. Do not take a double dose to make up for a missed one. What side effects can this medication cause? Tell your doctor if any of these symptoms are severe or do not go away: frequent urination stomach pain upset stomach constipation diarrhea loss of appetite headache blurred vision Some side effects can be serious. If you have any of these symptoms, call your doctor immediately or seek emergency medical treatment: dry mouth; thirst; nausea; vomiting; weakness, tiredness; drowsiness; restlessness; confusion; muscle weakness, pain, or cramps; fast heartbeat and other signs of dehydration and electrolyte imbalance yellowing of the eyes and skin fever blisters or peeling skin difficulty breathing or swallowing rash itching hives If you experience a serious side effect, you or your doctor may send a report to the Food and Drug Administration's (FDA) MedWatch Adverse Event Reporting program online ( http://www.fda.gov/Safety/MedWatch ) or by phone (1-800-332-1088). What should I know about storage and disposal of this medication? Keep this medicine in the container it came in, tightly closed, and out of reach of children. Store it at room temperature and away from excess heat and moisture (not in the bathroom). Unneeded medications should be disposed of in special ways to ensure that pets, children, and other people cannot consume them. However, you should not flush this medication down the toilet. Instead, the best way to dispose of your medication is through a medicine take-back program. Talk to your pharmacist or contact your local garbage/recycling department to learn about take-back programs in your community. See the FDA's Safe Disposal of Medicines website ( http://goo.gl/c4Rm4p ) for more information if you do not have access to a take-back program. In case of emergency/overdose In case of overdose, call the poison control helpline at 1-800-222-1222. Information is also available online at https://www.poisonhelp.org/help . If the victim has collapsed, had a seizure, has trouble breathing, or can't be awakened, immediately call emergency services at 911. What other information should I know? Keep all appointments with your doctor and the laboratory. Your blood pressure should be checked regularly, and blood tests should be done occasionally. Before having any laboratory test, tell your doctor and the laboratory personnel that you are taking methyclothiazide. Do not let anyone else take your medicine. Ask your pharmacist any questions you have about refilling your prescription. It is important for you to keep a written list of all of the prescription and nonprescription (over-the-counter) medicines you are taking, as well as any products such as vitamins, minerals, or other dietary supplements. You should bring this list with you each time you visit a doctor or if you are admitted to a hospital. It is also important information to carry with you in case of emergencies. Brand names Aquatensen ® ¶ Enduron ® ¶









[ Estrogen and Progestin (Oral Contraceptives) pronounced as (ess' troe jen) (proe jes tin) To use the sharing features on this page, please enable JavaScript. Why is this medication prescribed? How should this medicine be used? Other uses for this medicine What special precautions should I follow? What special dietary instructions should I follow? What should I do if I forget a dose? What side effects can this medication cause? What should I know about storage and disposal of this medication? In case of emergency/overdose What other information should I know? Other names IMPORTANT WARNING: Cigarette smoking increases the risk of serious side effects from oral contraceptives, including heart attacks, blood clots, and strokes. This risk is higher for women over 35 years of age and heavy smokers (15 or more cigarettes per day). If you take oral contraceptives, you should not smoke. Why is this medication prescribed? Oral contraceptives (birth-control pills) are used to prevent pregnancy. Estrogen and progestin are two female sex hormones. Combinations of estrogen and progestin work by preventing ovulation (the release of eggs from the ovaries). They also change the lining of the uterus (womb) to prevent pregnancy from developing and change the mucus at the cervix (opening of the uterus) to prevent sperm (male reproductive cells) from entering. Oral contraceptives are a very effective method of birth control, but they do not prevent the spread of human immunodeficiency virus (HIV, the virus that causes acquired immunodeficiency syndrome [AIDS]) and other sexually transmitted diseases. Some brands of oral contraceptives are also used to treat acne in certain patients. Oral contraceptives treat acne by decreasing the amounts of certain natural substances that can cause acne. Some oral contraceptives (Beyaz, Yaz) are also used to relieve the symptoms of premenstrual dysphoric disorder (physical and emotional symptoms that occur before the menstrual period each month) in women who have chosen to use an oral contraceptive to prevent pregnancy. How should this medicine be used? Oral contraceptives come in packets of 21, 28, or 91 tablets to take by mouth once a day, every day or almost every day of a regular cycle. To avoid nausea, take oral contraceptives with food or milk. Take your oral contraceptive at the same time every day. Follow the directions on your prescription label carefully, and ask your doctor or pharmacist to explain any part you do not understand. Take your oral contraceptive exactly as directed. Do not take more or less of it, take it more often, or take it for a longer time than prescribed by your doctor. Oral contraceptives come in many different brands. Different brands of oral contraceptives contain slightly different medications or doses, are taken in slightly different ways, and have different risks and benefits. Be sure that you know which brand of oral contraceptives you are using and exactly how you should use it. Ask your doctor or pharmacist for a copy of the manufacturer's information for the patient and read it carefully. If you have a 21-tablet packet, take 1 tablet daily for 21 days and then none for 7 days. Then start a new packet. If you have a 28-tablet packet, take 1 tablet daily for 28 days in a row in the order specified in your packet. Start a new packet the day after you take your 28th tablet. The tablets in most 28-tablet packets may have different colors. Many 28-tablet packets have certain color tablets that contain different amounts of estrogen and progestin, but also may have other color tablets which contain an inactive ingredient or a folate supplement. If you have a 91-day tablet packet, take 1 tablet daily for 91 days. Your packet will contain three trays of tablets. Start with the first tablet on the first tray and continue taking 1 tablet every day in the order specified on the packet until you have taken all of the tablets on all of the trays. The last set of tablets are a different color. These tablets may contain an inactive ingredient, or they may contain a very low dose of estrogen. Start your new packet the day after you take your 91st tablet. Your doctor will tell you when you should start taking your oral contraceptive. Oral contraceptives are usually started on the first or fifth day of your menstrual period or on the first Sunday after or on which bleeding begins. Your doctor will also tell you whether you need to use another method of birth control during the first 7 to 9 days that you take your oral contraceptive and will help you choose a method. Follow these directions carefully. You will probably experience withdrawal bleeding similar to a menstrual period while you are taking the inactive tablets or the low dose estrogen tablets or during the week that you do not take your oral contraceptive. If you are taking the type of packet that only contains active tablets, you will not experience any scheduled bleeding, but you may experience unexpected bleeding and spotting, especially at the beginning of your treatment. Be sure to start taking your new packet on schedule even if you are still bleeding. You may need to use a backup method of birth control if you vomit or have diarrhea while you are taking an oral contraceptive. Talk to your doctor about this before you begin to take your oral contraceptive so that you can prepare a backup method of birth control in case it is needed. If you vomit or have diarrhea while you are taking an oral contraceptive, call your doctor to find out how long you should use the backup method. If you have recently given birth, wait until 4 weeks after delivery to begin taking oral contraceptives. If you have had an abortion or miscarriage, talk to your doctor about when you should begin taking oral contraceptives. Oral contraceptives will work only as long as they are taken regularly. Continue to take oral contraceptives every day even if you are spotting or bleeding, have an upset stomach, or do not think that you are likely to become pregnant. Do not stop taking oral contraceptives without talking to your doctor. Other uses for this medicine Oral contraceptives are also sometimes used to treat heavy or irregular menstruation and endometriosis (a condition in which the type of tissue that lines the uterus [womb] grows in other areas of the body and causes pain, heavy or irregular menstruation [periods], and other symptoms). Talk to your doctor about the risks of using this medication for your condition. This medication may be prescribed for other uses; ask your doctor or pharmacist for more information. What special precautions should I follow? Before taking oral contraceptives, tell your doctor and pharmacist if you are allergic to estrogen, progestin, or any other medications. tell your doctor and pharmacist what prescription and nonprescription medications, vitamins, and nutritional supplements you are taking. Be sure to mention any of the following: acetaminophen (APAP, Tylenol); antibiotics such as ampicillin (Principen), clarithromycin (Biaxin),erythromycin (E.E.S., E-Mycin, Erythrocin), isoniazid (INH, Nydrazid), metronidazole (Flagyl),minocycline (Dynacin, Minocin), rifabutin (Mycobutin), rifampin (Rifadin, Rimactane), tetracycline (Sumycin), and troleandomycin (TAO) (not available in the U.S.); anticoagulants ('blood thinners') such as warfarin (Coumadin); antifungals such as griseofulvin (Fulvicin, Grifulvin, Grisactin), fluconazole (Diflucan), itraconazole (Sporanox), and ketoconazole (Nizoral); atorvastatin (Lipitor); clofibrate (Atromid-S); cyclosporine (Neoral, Sandimmune); bosentan (Tracleer); cimetidine (Tagamet); danazol (Danocrine); delavirdine (Rescriptor); diltiazem (Cardizem, Dilacor, Tiazac); fluoxetine (Prozac, Sarafem, in Symbyax); HIV protease inhibitors such as indinavir (Crixivan) and ritonavir (Norvir); medications for seizures such as carbamazepine (Tegretol), felbamate (Felbatol), lamotrigine (Lamictal), oxcarbazepine (Trileptal), phenobarbital (Luminal, Solfoton), phenytoin (Dilantin), primidone (Mysoline), and topiramate (Topamax); modafinil (Provigil); morphine (Kadian, MS Contin, MSIR, others); nefazodone; rifampin (Rimactane, in Rifadin, in Rifater); oral steroids such as dexamethasone (Decadron, Dexone), methylprednisolone (Medrol), prednisone (Deltasone), and prednisolone (Prelone); temazepam (Restoril); theophylline (Theobid, Theo-Dur); thyroid medication such as levothyroxine (Levothroid, Levoxyl, Synthroid); verapamil (Calan, Covera, Isoptin, Verelan); vitamin C; and zafirlukast (Accolate). Your doctor may need to change the doses of your medications or monitor you carefully for side effects. if you are taking oral contraceptives that contain drosperinone (Beyaz, Gianvi, Loryna, Ocella, Safyral, Syeda, Yasmin, Yaz, and Zarah) tell your doctor and pharmacist if you are taking any of the medications listed above or any of the following: angiotensin-converting enzyme (ACE) inhibitors such as benazepril (Lotensin), enalapril (Vasotec), and lisinopril (Prinivil, Zestril); angiotensin II antagonists such as irbesartan (Avapro), losartan (Cozaar), and valsartan (Diovan); aspirin and other nonsteroidal anti-inflammatory drugs (NSAIDs) such as ibuprofen (Advil, Motrin) and naproxen (Aleve, Naprosyn); diuretics ('water pills') such as amiloride (Midamor), spironolactone (Aldactone), and triamterene (Dyrenium); eplerenone (Inspra); heparin; or potassium supplements. Before taking Beyaz or Safyral, also tell your doctor or pharmacist if you are taking cholestyramine (Locholest, Prevalite, Questran), a folate supplement, methotrexate (Trexall), pyrimethamine (Daraprim), sulfasalazine (Azulfidine), or valproic acid (Depakene, Stavzor). tell your doctor what herbal products you are taking, especially St. John's wort. tell your doctor if you have or have ever had blood clots in your legs, lungs, or eyes; thrombophilia (condition in which the blood clots easily); coronary artery disease (clogged blood vessels leading to the heart); cerebrovascular disease (clogging or weakening of the blood vessels within the brain or leading to the brain); stroke or mini-stroke; an irregular heartbeat; heart disease; a heart attack; chest pain; diabetes that has affected your circulation; headaches that come along with other symptoms such as vision changes, weakness, and dizziness; high blood pressure; breast cancer; cancer of the lining of the uterus, cervix, or vagina; liver cancer, liver tumors, or other types of liver disease; yellowing of the skin or eyes during pregnancy or while you were using hormonal contraceptives (birth control pills, patches, rings, implants, or injections); unexplained abnormal vaginal bleeding; adrenal insufficiency (condition in which the body does not produce enough of certain natural substances needed for important functions such as blood pressure); or kidney disease. Also tell your doctor if you have recently had surgery or have been unable to move around for any reason. Your doctor may tell you that you should not take certain types of oral contraceptives or that you should not take any type of oral contraceptive if you have or have had any of these conditions. Also tell your doctor if anyone in your family has had breast cancer, if you are overweight, and if you have or have ever had problems with your breasts such as lumps, an abnormal mammogram (breast x-ray), or fibrocystic breast disease (swollen, tender breasts and/or breast lumps that are not cancer); high blood cholesterol or fats; diabetes; asthma; toxemia (high blood pressure during pregnancy); heart attack; chest pain; seizures; migraine headaches; depression; gallbladder disease; jaundice (yellowing of the skin or eyes); and excessive weight gain and fluid retention (bloating) during the menstrual cycle. do not take oral contraceptives if you are pregnant, plan to become pregnant, or are breast-feeding. If you become pregnant while taking oral contraceptives, call your doctor immediately. if you miss periods while you are taking oral contraceptives, you may be pregnant. If you are using a 91-tablet packet and you miss one period, call your doctor. If you are using another type of packet according to the directions and you miss one period, you may continue to take your tablets. However, if you have not taken your tablets as directed and you miss one period or if you have taken your tablets as directed and you miss two periods, call your doctor and use another method of birth control until you have a pregnancy test. If you are using a 28-tablet packet that contains only active tablets, you will not expect to have periods on a regular basis, so it may be hard to tell if you are pregnant. If you are using this type of oral contraceptive, call your doctor and have a pregnancy test if you experience symptoms of pregnancy such as nausea, vomiting, and breast tenderness, or if you suspect you may be pregnant. if you are having surgery, including dental surgery, tell the doctor or dentist that you are taking oral contraceptives. you should know that oral contraceptives may cause a spotty darkening of the skin, especially on the face. If you have experienced changes in your skin color during pregnancy or while you were taking oral contraceptives in the past, you should avoid exposure to real or artificial sunlight while you are taking oral contraceptives. Wear protective clothing, sunglasses, and sunscreen. tell your doctor and pharmacist if you wear contact lenses. If you notice changes in vision or ability to wear your lenses while taking oral contraceptives, see an eye doctor. What special dietary instructions should I follow? Unless your doctor tells you otherwise, continue your normal diet. What should I do if I forget a dose? If you miss doses of your oral contraceptive, you may not be protected from pregnancy. You may need to use a backup method of birth control for 7 to 9 days or until the end of the cycle. Every brand of oral contraceptives comes with specific directions to follow if you miss one or more doses. Carefully read the directions in the manufacturer's information for the patient that came with your oral contraceptive. If you have any questions, call your doctor or pharmacist. Continue to take your tablets as scheduled and use a backup method of birth control until your questions are answered. What side effects can this medication cause? Oral contraceptives may cause side effects. Tell your doctor if any of these symptoms are severe or do not go away: nausea vomiting stomach cramps or bloating diarrhea constipation gingivitis (swelling of the gum tissue) increased or decreased appetite weight gain or weight loss brown or black skin patches acne hair growth in unusual places bleeding or spotting between menstrual periods changes in menstrual flow painful or missed periods breast tenderness, enlargement, or discharge swelling, redness, irritation, burning, or itching of the vagina white vaginal discharge Some side effects can be serious. The following symptoms are uncommon, but if you experience any of them, call your doctor immediately: severe headache severe vomiting speech problems dizziness or faintness weakness or numbness of an arm or leg crushing chest pain or chest heaviness coughing up blood shortness of breath leg pain partial or complete loss of vision double vision bulging eyes severe stomach pain yellowing of the skin or eyes loss of appetite extreme tiredness, weakness, or lack of energy fever dark-colored urine light-colored stool swelling of the hands, feet, ankles, or lower legs depression, especially if you also have trouble sleeping, tiredness, loss of energy, or other mood changes unusual bleeding rash menstrual bleeding that is unusually heavy or that lasts for longer than 7 days in a row Oral contraceptives may increase the chance that you will develop liver tumors. These tumors are not a form of cancer, but they can break and cause serious bleeding inside the body. Oral contraceptives may also increase the chance that you will develop breast or liver cancer, or have a heart attack, a stroke, or a serious blood clot. Talk to your doctor about the risks of using oral contraceptives. Some studies show that women who take oral contraceptives that contain drosperinone (Beyaz, Gianvi, Loryna, Ocella, Safyral, Syeda, Yasmin, Yaz, and Zarah) may be more likely to develop deep vein thrombosis (a serious or life-threatening condition in which blood clots that form in the veins, usually in the legs and may move through the body to the lungs) than women who take oral contraceptives that do not contain drosperinone. However, other studies do not show this increased risk. Before you begin taking oral contraceptives, talk to your doctor about the risk that you will develop blood clots and about which oral contraceptive or other method of birth control may be the best choice for you. Oral contraceptives may cause other side effects. Call your doctor if you have any unusual problems while taking this medication. If you experience a serious side effect, you or your doctor may send a report to the Food and Drug Administration's (FDA) MedWatch Adverse Event Reporting program online ( http://www.fda.gov/Safety/MedWatch ) or by phone (1-800-332-1088). What should I know about storage and disposal of this medication? Keep this medication in the packet it came in, tightly closed, and out of reach of children. Store it at room temperature and away from excess heat and moisture (not in the bathroom). Unneeded medications should be disposed of in special ways to ensure that pets, children, and other people cannot consume them. However, you should not flush this medication down the toilet. Instead, the best way to dispose of your medication is through a medicine take-back program. Talk to your pharmacist or contact your local garbage/recycling department to learn about take-back programs in your community. See the FDA's Safe Disposal of Medicines website ( http://goo.gl/c4Rm4p ) for more information if you do not have access to a take-back program. It is important to keep all medication out of sight and reach of children as many containers (such as weekly pill minders and those for eye drops, creams, patches, and inhalers) are not child-resistant and young children can open them easily. To protect young children from poisoning, always lock safety caps and immediately place the medication in a safe location – one that is up and away and out of their sight and reach. http://www.upandaway.org In case of emergency/overdose In case of overdose, call the poison control helpline at 1-800-222-1222. Information is also available online at https://www.poisonhelp.org/help . If the victim has collapsed, had a seizure, has trouble breathing, or can't be awakened, immediately call emergency services at 911. Symptoms of overdose may include: nausea vaginal bleeding What other information should I know? Keep all appointments with your doctor and the laboratory. You should have a complete physical examination every year, including blood pressure measurements, breast and pelvic exams, and a Pap test. Follow your doctor's directions for examining your breasts; report any lumps immediately. Before you have any laboratory tests, tell the laboratory personnel that you take oral contraceptives. If you wish to stop taking oral contraceptives and become pregnant, your doctor may tell you to use another method of birth control until you begin to menstruate regularly again. It may take a long time for you to become pregnant after you stop taking oral contraceptives, especially if you have never had a baby or if you had irregular, infrequent, or complete absence of menstrual periods before taking oral contraceptives. However, it is possible to become pregnant within days of stopping certain oral contraceptives. If you want to stop taking oral contraceptives but do not want to become pregnant, you should begin using another type of birth control as soon as you stop taking oral contraceptives. Discuss any questions that you may have with your doctor. Oral contraceptives may decrease the amount of folate in your body. Folate is important for the development of a healthy baby, so you should talk to your doctor if you want to become pregnant soon after you stop taking oral contraceptives. Your doctor may recommend that you take a folate supplement or an oral contraceptive that contains a folate supplement (Beyaz, Safyral). Do not let anyone else take your medication. Ask your pharmacist any questions you have about refilling your prescription. It is important for you to keep a written list of all of the prescription and nonprescription (over-the-counter) medicines you are taking, as well as any products such as vitamins, minerals, or other dietary supplements. You should bring this list with you each time you visit a doctor or if you are admitted to a hospital. It is also important information to carry with you in case of emergencies.



















[ Phenylephrine pronounced as (fen il ef' rin)  Phenylephrine is used to relieve nasal discomfort caused by colds, allergies, and hay fever. It is also used to relieve sinus congestion and pressure. Phenylephrine will relieve symptoms but will not treat the cause of the symptoms or speed recovery. Phenylephrine is in a class of medications called nasal decongestants. It works by reducing swelling of the blood vessels in the nasal passages. How should this medicine be used? Phenylephrine comes as a tablet, a liquid, or a dissolving strip to take by mouth. It is usually taken every 4 hours as needed. Follow the directions on your prescription label or the package label carefully, and ask your doctor or pharmacist to explain any part you do not understand. Take phenylephrine exactly as directed. Do not take more or less of it or take it more often than prescribed by your doctor or directed on the label. Phenylephrine comes alone and in combination with other medications. Ask your doctor or pharmacist for advice on which product is best for your symptoms. Check nonprescription cough and cold product labels carefully before using two or more products at the same time. These products may contain the same active ingredient(s) and taking them together could cause you to receive an overdose. This is especially important if you will be giving cough and cold medications to a child. Nonprescription cough and cold combination products, including products that contain phenylephrine, can cause serious side effects or death in young children. Do not give these products to children younger than 4 years of age. If you give these products to children 4 to 11 years of age, use caution and follow the package directions carefully. If you are giving phenylephrine or a combination product that contains phenylephrine to a child, read the package label carefully to be sure that it is the right product for a child of that age. Do not give phenylephrine products that are made for adults to children. Before you give a phenylephrine product to a child, check the package label to find out how much medication the child should receive. Give the dose that matches the child's age on the chart. Ask the child's doctor if you don't know how much medication to give the child. If you are taking the liquid, do not use a household spoon to measure your dose. Use the measuring spoon or cup that came with the medication or use a spoon made especially for measuring medication. If your symptoms do not get better within 7 days or if you have a fever, stop taking phenylephrine and call your doctor. If you are taking the dissolving strips, place one strip on your tongue and allow it to dissolve. Other uses for this medicine This medication may be prescribed for other uses; ask your doctor or pharmacist for more information. What special precautions should I follow? Before taking phenylephrine, tell your doctor and pharmacist if you are allergic to phenylephrine, any other medications, or any of the ingredients in phenylephrine preparations. do not take phenylephrine if you are taking a monoamine oxidase (MAO) inhibitor, such as isocarboxazid (Marplan), phenelzine (Nardil), selegiline (Eldepryl, Emsam, Zelapar), and tranylcypromine (Parnate), or if you have stopped taking one of these medications within the past 2 weeks. tell your doctor and pharmacist what other prescription and nonprescription medications, vitamins, nutritional supplements, and herbal products you are taking or plan to take. tell your doctor if you have or have ever had high blood pressure, diabetes, trouble urinating because of an enlarged prostate gland, or thyroid or heart disease. tell your doctor if you are pregnant, plan to become pregnant, or are breast-feeding. If you become pregnant while taking phenylephrine, call your doctor. if you are having surgery, including dental surgery, tell the doctor or dentist that you are taking phenylephrine. if you have phenylketonuria (PKU, an inherited condition in which a special diet must be followed to prevent damage to your brain that can cause severe intellectual disability), you should know that some phenylephrine products may be sweetened with aspartame, a source of phenylalanine. What special dietary instructions should I follow? Unless your doctor tells you otherwise, continue your normal diet. What should I do if I forget a dose? This medication is usually taken as needed. If your doctor has told you to take phenylephrine regularly, take the missed dose as soon as you remember it. However, if it is almost time for the next dose, skip the missed dose and continue your regular dosing schedule. Do not take a double dose to make up for a missed one. What side effects can this medication cause? Phenylephrine may cause side effects. Some side effects can be serious. If you experience any of these symptoms, stop using phenylephrine and call your doctor: nervousness dizziness sleeplessness Phenylephrine may cause other side effects. Call your doctor if you have any unusual problems while taking this medication. If you experience a serious side effect, you or your doctor may send a report to the Food and Drug Administration's (FDA) MedWatch Adverse Event Reporting program online ( http://www.fda.gov/Safety/MedWatch ) or by phone (1-800-332-1088). What should I know about storage and disposal of this medication? Keep this medication in the container it came in, tightly closed, and out of reach of children. Store it at room temperature and away from excess heat and moisture (not in the bathroom). It is important to keep all medication out of sight and reach of children as many containers (such as weekly pill minders and those for eye drops, creams, patches, and inhalers) are not child-resistant and young children can open them easily. To protect young children from poisoning, always lock safety caps and immediately place the medication in a safe location – one that is up and away and out of their sight and reach. http://www.upandaway.org Unneeded medications should be disposed of in special ways to ensure that pets, children, and other people cannot consume them. However, you should not flush this medication down the toilet. Instead, the best way to dispose of your medication is through a medicine take-back program. Talk to your pharmacist or contact your local garbage/recycling department to learn about take-back programs in your community. See the FDA's Safe Disposal of Medicines website ( http://goo.gl/c4Rm4p ) for more information if you do not have access to a take-back program. In case of emergency/overdose In case of overdose, call the poison control helpline at 1-800-222-1222. Information is also available online at https://www.poisonhelp.org/help . If the victim has collapsed, had a seizure, has trouble breathing, or can't be awakened, immediately call emergency services at 911. What other information should I know? Ask your pharmacist any questions you have about phenylephrine. It is important for you to keep a written list of all of the prescription and nonprescription (over-the-counter) medicines you are taking, as well as any products such as vitamins, minerals, or other dietary supplements. You should bring this list with you each time you visit a doctor or if you are admitted to a hospital. It is also important information to carry with you in case of emergencies. Brand names Children's Sudafed PE Nasal Decongestant ® Lusonal ® § PediaCare Children's Decongestant ® Sudafed PE Congestion ® Suphedrin PE ®















[ Triamcinolone Topical pronounced as (trye am sin' oh lone) To use the sharing features on this page, please enable JavaScript. Why is this medication prescribed? How should this medicine be used? Other uses for this medicine What special precautions should I follow? What should I do if I forget a dose? What side effects can this medication cause? What should I know about storage and disposal of this medication? In case of emergency/overdose What other information should I know? Brand names Why is this medication prescribed? Triamcinolone topical is used to treat the itching, redness, dryness, crusting, scaling, inflammation, and discomfort of various skin conditions, including psoriasis (a skin disease in which red, scaly patches form on some areas of the body and eczema (a skin disease that causes the skin to be dry and itchy and to sometimes develop red, scaly rashes). It is also used as a dental paste to relieve the discomfort of mouth sores. Triamcinolone is in a class of medications called corticosteroids. It works by activating natural substances in the skin to reduce swelling, redness, and itching. How should this medicine be used? Triamcinolone comes in ointment, cream, lotion, and aerosol (spray) in various strengths for use on the skin and as a paste for use in the mouth. It usually is applied two to four times a day. For mouth sores, it is applied at bedtime and, if necessary, two or three times daily, preferably after meals. Follow the directions on your prescription label carefully, and ask your doctor or pharmacist to explain any part you do not understand. Use triamcinolone exactly as directed. Do not use more or less of it or use it more often than prescribed by your doctor. Do not apply it to other areas of your body or use it to treat other skin conditions unless directed to do so by your doctor. To use triamcinolone topical, apply the ointment, cream, or lotion sparingly in a thin film and rub it in gently. To use the lotion or aerosol (spray) on your scalp, part your hair, apply a small amount of the medicine on the affected area, and rub it in gently. Protect the area from washing and rubbing until the lotion or spray dries. You may wash your hair as usual but not right after applying the medicine. To apply an aerosol, shake well and spray on the affected area holding the container about 3 to 6 inches away. Spray for about 2 seconds to cover an area the size of your hand. Take care not to inhale the vapors. If you are spraying near your face, cover your eyes. To apply the paste, press a small amount on the mouth sore without rubbing until a thin film develops. You may need to use more paste if the mouth sore is large. If the mouth sore does not begin to heal within 7 days, call your doctor. Triamcinolone aerosol (spray) may catch fire. Stay away from open fire, flames, and do not smoke while you are applying triamcinolone aerosol, and for a short time afterward. If you are using triamcinolone topical on your face, keep it out of your eyes. Do not apply other skin preparations or products on the treated area without talking with your doctor. If you are using triamcinolone on a child's diaper area, do not use tight-fitting diapers or plastic pants. Such use may increase side effects. Other uses for this medicine This medication may be prescribed for other uses; ask your doctor or pharmacist for more information. What special precautions should I follow? Before using triamcinolone topical, tell your doctor and pharmacist if you are allergic to triamcinolone, any other medications, or any of the ingredients in triamcinolone topical products. Ask your pharmacist for a list of the ingredients. tell your doctor and pharmacist what other prescription and nonprescription medications, vitamins, and nutritional supplements you are taking or plan to take. tell your doctor if you have an infection in your mouth or throat or if you have ever had diabetes or Cushing's syndrome (an abnormal condition that is caused by excess hormones [corticosteroids]). tell your doctor if you are pregnant, plan to become pregnant, or are breastfeeding. If you become pregnant while using triamcinolone topical, call your doctor. What should I do if I forget a dose? Apply the missed dose as soon as you remember it. However, if it is almost time for the next dose, skip the missed dose and continue your regular dosing schedule. Do not apply a double dose to make up for a missed one. What side effects can this medication cause? Side effects from triamcinolone can occur. Tell your doctor if any of these symptoms are severe or do not go away: burning, itching, irritation, stinging, redness, or drying of the skin acne change in skin color unwanted hair growth tiny red bumps or rash around the mouth small white or red bumps on the skin If you experience any of the following symptoms, call your doctor immediately: severe rash redness or swelling or other signs of skin infection in the place where you applied triamcinolone Children who use triamcinolone topical may have an increased risk of side effects including slowed growth and delayed weight gain. Talk to your child's doctor about the risks of applying this medication to your child's skin. Triamcinolone topical may cause other side effects. Call your doctor if you have any unusual problems while using this medication. If you experience a serious side effect, you or your doctor may send a report to the Food and Drug Administration's (FDA) MedWatch Adverse Event Reporting program online ( http://www.fda.gov/Safety/MedWatch ) or by phone (1-800-332-1088). What should I know about storage and disposal of this medication? Keep this medication in the container it came in, tightly closed, and out of reach of children. Store it at room temperature and away from excess heat and moisture (not in the bathroom). Do not freeze it. Unneeded medications should be disposed of in special ways to ensure that pets, children, and other people cannot consume them. However, you should not flush this medication down the toilet. Instead, the best way to dispose of your medication is through a medicine take-back program. Talk to your pharmacist or contact your local garbage/recycling department to learn about take-back programs in your community. See the FDA's Safe Disposal of Medicines website ( http://goo.gl/c4Rm4p ) for more information if you do not have access to a take-back program. It is important to keep all medication out of sight and reach of children as many containers (such as weekly pill minders and those for eye drops, creams, patches, and inhalers) are not child-resistant and young children can open them easily. To protect young children from poisoning, always lock safety caps and immediately place the medication in a safe location – one that is up and away and out of their sight and reach. http://www.upandaway.org In case of emergency/overdose If someone swallows triamcinolone topical, call your local poison control center at 1-800-222-1222. If the victim has collapsed or is not breathing, call local emergency services at 911. What other information should I know? Keep all appointments with your doctor and the laboratory. Your doctor may order certain lab tests to check your body's response to triamcinolone. Do not let anyone else use your medication. Ask your pharmacist any questions you have about refilling your prescription. It is important for you to keep a written list of all of the prescription and nonprescription (over-the-counter) medicines you are taking, as well as any products such as vitamins, minerals, or other dietary supplements. You should bring this list with you each time you visit a doctor or if you are admitted to a hospital. It is also important information to carry with you in case of emergencies. Brand names Aristocort ® ¶ Aristocort ® A ¶ Aristogel ® ¶ Flutex ® ¶ Kenalog ® Topical Kenalog ® Dental Paste ¶ Oralone ® Dental Paste ¶ Triacet ® ¶ Triacort ® ¶ Triatex ® ¶ Triderm ® Trymex ® ¶

[ Triamcinolone Topical pronounced as (trye am sin' oh lone) To use the sharing features on this page, please enable JavaScript. Why is this medication prescribed? How should this medicine be used? Other uses for this medicine What special precautions should I follow? What should I do if I forget a dose? What side effects can this medication cause? What should I know about storage and disposal of this medication? In case of emergency/overdose What other information should I know? Brand names Why is this medication prescribed? Triamcinolone topical is used to treat the itching, redness, dryness, crusting, scaling, inflammation, and discomfort of various skin conditions, including psoriasis (a skin disease in which red, scaly patches form on some areas of the body and eczema (a skin disease that causes the skin to be dry and itchy and to sometimes develop red, scaly rashes). It is also used as a dental paste to relieve the discomfort of mouth sores. Triamcinolone is in a class of medications called corticosteroids. It works by activating natural substances in the skin to reduce swelling, redness, and itching. How should this medicine be used? Triamcinolone comes in ointment, cream, lotion, and aerosol (spray) in various strengths for use on the skin and as a paste for use in the mouth. It usually is applied two to four times a day. For mouth sores, it is applied at bedtime and, if necessary, two or three times daily, preferably after meals. Follow the directions on your prescription label carefully, and ask your doctor or pharmacist to explain any part you do not understand. Use triamcinolone exactly as directed. Do not use more or less of it or use it more often than prescribed by your doctor. Do not apply it to other areas of your body or use it to treat other skin conditions unless directed to do so by your doctor. To use triamcinolone topical, apply the ointment, cream, or lotion sparingly in a thin film and rub it in gently. To use the lotion or aerosol (spray) on your scalp, part your hair, apply a small amount of the medicine on the affected area, and rub it in gently. Protect the area from washing and rubbing until the lotion or spray dries. You may wash your hair as usual but not right after applying the medicine. To apply an aerosol, shake well and spray on the affected area holding the container about 3 to 6 inches away. Spray for about 2 seconds to cover an area the size of your hand. Take care not to inhale the vapors. If you are spraying near your face, cover your eyes. To apply the paste, press a small amount on the mouth sore without rubbing until a thin film develops. You may need to use more paste if the mouth sore is large. If the mouth sore does not begin to heal within 7 days, call your doctor. Triamcinolone aerosol (spray) may catch fire. Stay away from open fire, flames, and do not smoke while you are applying triamcinolone aerosol, and for a short time afterward. If you are using triamcinolone topical on your face, keep it out of your eyes. Do not apply other skin preparations or products on the treated area without talking with your doctor. If you are using triamcinolone on a child's diaper area, do not use tight-fitting diapers or plastic pants. Such use may increase side effects. Other uses for this medicine This medication may be prescribed for other uses; ask your doctor or pharmacist for more information. What special precautions should I follow? Before using triamcinolone topical, tell your doctor and pharmacist if you are allergic to triamcinolone, any other medications, or any of the ingredients in triamcinolone topical products. Ask your pharmacist for a list of the ingredients. tell your doctor and pharmacist what other prescription and nonprescription medications, vitamins, and nutritional supplements you are taking or plan to take. tell your doctor if you have an infection in your mouth or throat or if you have ever had diabetes or Cushing's syndrome (an abnormal condition that is caused by excess hormones [corticosteroids]). tell your doctor if you are pregnant, plan to become pregnant, or are breastfeeding. If you become pregnant while using triamcinolone topical, call your doctor. What should I do if I forget a dose? Apply the missed dose as soon as you remember it. However, if it is almost time for the next dose, skip the missed dose and continue your regular dosing schedule. Do not apply a double dose to make up for a missed one. What side effects can this medication cause? Side effects from triamcinolone can occur. Tell your doctor if any of these symptoms are severe or do not go away: burning, itching, irritation, stinging, redness, or drying of the skin acne change in skin color unwanted hair growth tiny red bumps or rash around the mouth small white or red bumps on the skin If you experience any of the following symptoms, call your doctor immediately: severe rash redness or swelling or other signs of skin infection in the place where you applied triamcinolone Children who use triamcinolone topical may have an increased risk of side effects including slowed growth and delayed weight gain. Talk to your child's doctor about the risks of applying this medication to your child's skin. Triamcinolone topical may cause other side effects. Call your doctor if you have any unusual problems while using this medication. If you experience a serious side effect, you or your doctor may send a report to the Food and Drug Administration's (FDA) MedWatch Adverse Event Reporting program online ( http://www.fda.gov/Safety/MedWatch ) or by phone (1-800-332-1088). What should I know about storage and disposal of this medication? Keep this medication in the container it came in, tightly closed, and out of reach of children. Store it at room temperature and away from excess heat and moisture (not in the bathroom). Do not freeze it. Unneeded medications should be disposed of in special ways to ensure that pets, children, and other people cannot consume them. However, you should not flush this medication down the toilet. Instead, the best way to dispose of your medication is through a medicine take-back program. Talk to your pharmacist or contact your local garbage/recycling department to learn about take-back programs in your community. See the FDA's Safe Disposal of Medicines website ( http://goo.gl/c4Rm4p ) for more information if you do not have access to a take-back program. It is important to keep all medication out of sight and reach of children as many containers (such as weekly pill minders and those for eye drops, creams, patches, and inhalers) are not child-resistant and young children can open them easily. To protect young children from poisoning, always lock safety caps and immediately place the medication in a safe location – one that is up and away and out of their sight and reach. http://www.upandaway.org In case of emergency/overdose If someone swallows triamcinolone topical, call your local poison control center at 1-800-222-1222. If the victim has collapsed or is not breathing, call local emergency services at 911. What other information should I know? Keep all appointments with your doctor and the laboratory. Your doctor may order certain lab tests to check your body's response to triamcinolone. Do not let anyone else use your medication. Ask your pharmacist any questions you have about refilling your prescription. It is important for you to keep a written list of all of the prescription and nonprescription (over-the-counter) medicines you are taking, as well as any products such as vitamins, minerals, or other dietary supplements. You should bring this list with you each time you visit a doctor or if you are admitted to a hospital. It is also important information to carry with you in case of emergencies. Brand names Aristocort ® ¶ Aristocort ® A ¶ Aristogel ® ¶ Flutex ® ¶ Kenalog ® Topical Kenalog ® Dental Paste ¶ Oralone ® Dental Paste ¶ Triacet ® ¶ Triacort ® ¶ Triatex ® ¶ Triderm ® Trymex ® ¶

[ Triamcinolone Topical pronounced as (trye am sin' oh lone) To use the sharing features on this page, please enable JavaScript. Why is this medication prescribed? How should this medicine be used? Other uses for this medicine What special precautions should I follow? What should I do if I forget a dose? What side effects can this medication cause? What should I know about storage and disposal of this medication? In case of emergency/overdose What other information should I know? Brand names Why is this medication prescribed? Triamcinolone topical is used to treat the itching, redness, dryness, crusting, scaling, inflammation, and discomfort of various skin conditions, including psoriasis (a skin disease in which red, scaly patches form on some areas of the body and eczema (a skin disease that causes the skin to be dry and itchy and to sometimes develop red, scaly rashes). It is also used as a dental paste to relieve the discomfort of mouth sores. Triamcinolone is in a class of medications called corticosteroids. It works by activating natural substances in the skin to reduce swelling, redness, and itching. How should this medicine be used? Triamcinolone comes in ointment, cream, lotion, and aerosol (spray) in various strengths for use on the skin and as a paste for use in the mouth. It usually is applied two to four times a day. For mouth sores, it is applied at bedtime and, if necessary, two or three times daily, preferably after meals. Follow the directions on your prescription label carefully, and ask your doctor or pharmacist to explain any part you do not understand. Use triamcinolone exactly as directed. Do not use more or less of it or use it more often than prescribed by your doctor. Do not apply it to other areas of your body or use it to treat other skin conditions unless directed to do so by your doctor. To use triamcinolone topical, apply the ointment, cream, or lotion sparingly in a thin film and rub it in gently. To use the lotion or aerosol (spray) on your scalp, part your hair, apply a small amount of the medicine on the affected area, and rub it in gently. Protect the area from washing and rubbing until the lotion or spray dries. You may wash your hair as usual but not right after applying the medicine. To apply an aerosol, shake well and spray on the affected area holding the container about 3 to 6 inches away. Spray for about 2 seconds to cover an area the size of your hand. Take care not to inhale the vapors. If you are spraying near your face, cover your eyes. To apply the paste, press a small amount on the mouth sore without rubbing until a thin film develops. You may need to use more paste if the mouth sore is large. If the mouth sore does not begin to heal within 7 days, call your doctor. Triamcinolone aerosol (spray) may catch fire. Stay away from open fire, flames, and do not smoke while you are applying triamcinolone aerosol, and for a short time afterward. If you are using triamcinolone topical on your face, keep it out of your eyes. Do not apply other skin preparations or products on the treated area without talking with your doctor. If you are using triamcinolone on a child's diaper area, do not use tight-fitting diapers or plastic pants. Such use may increase side effects. Other uses for this medicine This medication may be prescribed for other uses; ask your doctor or pharmacist for more information. What special precautions should I follow? Before using triamcinolone topical, tell your doctor and pharmacist if you are allergic to triamcinolone, any other medications, or any of the ingredients in triamcinolone topical products. Ask your pharmacist for a list of the ingredients. tell your doctor and pharmacist what other prescription and nonprescription medications, vitamins, and nutritional supplements you are taking or plan to take. tell your doctor if you have an infection in your mouth or throat or if you have ever had diabetes or Cushing's syndrome (an abnormal condition that is caused by excess hormones [corticosteroids]). tell your doctor if you are pregnant, plan to become pregnant, or are breastfeeding. If you become pregnant while using triamcinolone topical, call your doctor. What should I do if I forget a dose? Apply the missed dose as soon as you remember it. However, if it is almost time for the next dose, skip the missed dose and continue your regular dosing schedule. Do not apply a double dose to make up for a missed one. What side effects can this medication cause? Side effects from triamcinolone can occur. Tell your doctor if any of these symptoms are severe or do not go away: burning, itching, irritation, stinging, redness, or drying of the skin acne change in skin color unwanted hair growth tiny red bumps or rash around the mouth small white or red bumps on the skin If you experience any of the following symptoms, call your doctor immediately: severe rash redness or swelling or other signs of skin infection in the place where you applied triamcinolone Children who use triamcinolone topical may have an increased risk of side effects including slowed growth and delayed weight gain. Talk to your child's doctor about the risks of applying this medication to your child's skin. Triamcinolone topical may cause other side effects. Call your doctor if you have any unusual problems while using this medication. If you experience a serious side effect, you or your doctor may send a report to the Food and Drug Administration's (FDA) MedWatch Adverse Event Reporting program online ( http://www.fda.gov/Safety/MedWatch ) or by phone (1-800-332-1088). What should I know about storage and disposal of this medication? Keep this medication in the container it came in, tightly closed, and out of reach of children. Store it at room temperature and away from excess heat and moisture (not in the bathroom). Do not freeze it. Unneeded medications should be disposed of in special ways to ensure that pets, children, and other people cannot consume them. However, you should not flush this medication down the toilet. Instead, the best way to dispose of your medication is through a medicine take-back program. Talk to your pharmacist or contact your local garbage/recycling department to learn about take-back programs in your community. See the FDA's Safe Disposal of Medicines website ( http://goo.gl/c4Rm4p ) for more information if you do not have access to a take-back program. It is important to keep all medication out of sight and reach of children as many containers (such as weekly pill minders and those for eye drops, creams, patches, and inhalers) are not child-resistant and young children can open them easily. To protect young children from poisoning, always lock safety caps and immediately place the medication in a safe location – one that is up and away and out of their sight and reach. http://www.upandaway.org In case of emergency/overdose If someone swallows triamcinolone topical, call your local poison control center at 1-800-222-1222. If the victim has collapsed or is not breathing, call local emergency services at 911. What other information should I know? Keep all appointments with your doctor and the laboratory. Your doctor may order certain lab tests to check your body's response to triamcinolone. Do not let anyone else use your medication. Ask your pharmacist any questions you have about refilling your prescription. It is important for you to keep a written list of all of the prescription and nonprescription (over-the-counter) medicines you are taking, as well as any products such as vitamins, minerals, or other dietary supplements. You should bring this list with you each time you visit a doctor or if you are admitted to a hospital. It is also important information to carry with you in case of emergencies. Brand names Aristocort ® ¶ Aristocort ® A ¶ Aristogel ® ¶ Flutex ® ¶ Kenalog ® Topical Kenalog ® Dental Paste ¶ Oralone ® Dental Paste ¶ Triacet ® ¶ Triacort ® ¶ Triatex ® ¶ Triderm ® Trymex ® ¶



















[ Artemether and Lumefantrine pronounced as (ar tem' e ther) (loo me fan' treen) To use the sharing features on this page, please enable JavaScript. Why is this medication prescribed? How should this medicine be used? Other uses for this medicine What special precautions should I follow? What special dietary instructions should I follow? What should I do if I forget a dose? What side effects can this medication cause? What should I know about storage and disposal of this medication? In case of emergency/overdose What other information should I know? Why is this medication prescribed? The combination of artemether and lumefantrine is used to treat certain kinds of malaria infections (a serious infection that is spread by mosquitoes in certain parts of the world and can cause death). Artemether and lumefantrine should not be used to prevent malaria. Artemether and lumefantrine is in a class of medications called antimalarials. It works by killing the organisms that cause malaria. How should this medicine be used? The combination of artemether and lumefantrine comes as a tablet to take by mouth. It is usually taken twice a day for 3 days as instructed by your doctor. Always take artemether and lumefantrine with food. If you are not able to eat, contact your doctor. Follow the directions on your prescription label carefully, and ask your doctor or pharmacist to explain any part you do not understand. Take artemether and lumefantrine exactly as directed. Do not take more or less of it or take it more often than prescribed by your doctor. If you have trouble swallowing the tablets, they may be crushed and mixed with 1 or 2 teaspoons of water in a clean container. Drink the mixture right away. Rinse the glass with more water and swallow the entire contents. You may vomit soon after you take the medication. If you vomit within 1 to 2 hours after you take artemether and lumefantrine, you should take another full dose of artemether and lumefantrine. If you vomit again after taking the extra dose, call your doctor. You should begin to feel better during the first few days of treatment with artemether and lumefantrine. If your symptoms do not improve or get worse, call your doctor. Also call your doctor if you have a fever, chills, muscle pain, or headache soon after you finish your treatment. This could be a sign that you still are infected with malaria. Take artemether and lumefantrine until you finish the prescription, even if you feel better. If you stop taking artemether and lumefantrine too soon or skip doses, your infection may not be completely treated and the organisms may become resistant to antimalarials. Ask your pharmacist or doctor for a copy of the manufacturer's information for the patient. Other uses for this medicine This medication may be prescribed for other uses; ask your doctor or pharmacist for more information. What special precautions should I follow? Before taking artemether and lumefantrine, tell your doctor and pharmacist if you are allergic to artemether and lumefantrine, any other medications, or any of the ingredients in artemether and lumefantrine tablets. Ask your pharmacist for a list of the ingredients. Some medications should not be taken with artemether and lumefantrine. Other medications may cause dosing changes or extra monitoring when taken with artemether and lumefantrine. Make sure you have discussed any medications you are currently taking or plan to take before starting artemether and lumefantrine with your doctor and pharmacist. Before starting, stopping, or changing any medications while taking artemether and lumefantrine, please get the advice of your doctor or pharmacist. You should know that artemether and lumefantrine may decrease the effectiveness of hormonal contraceptives (birth control pills, patches, rings, and injections). You will need to use another method of contraception to prevent pregnancy while taking artemether and lumefantrine. Talk to your doctor about other ways to prevent pregnancy while you are taking this medication. The following nonprescription and herbal products may interact with artemether and lumefantrine: St. John's wort. Be sure to let your doctor and pharmacist know that you are taking these medications before you start taking artemether and lumefantrine. Do not start any of these medications while taking artemether and lumefantrine without discussing with your healthcare provider. tell your doctor if you or anyone in your family has had a prolonged QT interval (a rare heart problem that may cause irregular heartbeat, fainting, or sudden death); or if you have or have ever had a slow, fast, or irregular heartbeat; a recent heart attack; a low level of magnesium or potassium in your blood; kidney, heart, or liver disease. tell your doctor if you are pregnant, plan to become pregnant, or are breast-feeding. If you become pregnant while taking artemether and lumefantrine, call your doctor. you should know that artemether and lumefantrine may decrease the effectiveness of hormonal contraceptives (birth control pills, patches, rings, implants, and injections). Talk to your doctor about methods of birth control that will work for you while you are taking artemether and lumefantrine. What special dietary instructions should I follow? Do not drink grapefruit juice while taking this medication. What should I do if I forget a dose? Take the missed dose as soon as you remember it. However, if it is almost time for the next dose, skip the missed dose and continue your regular dosing schedule. Do not take a double dose to make up for a missed one. What side effects can this medication cause? Artemether and lumefantrine may cause side effects. Tell your doctor if any of these symptoms are severe or do not go away: headache dizziness weakness muscle or joint pain tiredness difficulty falling asleep or staying asleep vomiting loss of appetite fever chills Some side effects can be serious. If you experience any of these symptoms, call your doctor immediately or get emergency medical treatment: abnormal or fast heartbeat fainting rash hives difficulty breathing or swallowing swelling of the lips, tongue, face, or throat hoarseness difficulty speaking Artemether and lumefantrine may cause other side effects. Call your doctor if you have any unusual problems while taking this medication. If you experience a serious side effect, you or your doctor may send a report to the Food and Drug Administration's (FDA) MedWatch Adverse Event Reporting program online ( http://www.fda.gov/Safety/MedWatch ) or by phone (1-800-332-1088). What should I know about storage and disposal of this medication? Keep this medication in the container it came in, tightly closed, and out of reach of children. Store it at room temperature and away from excess heat and moisture (not in the bathroom). Unneeded medications should be disposed of in special ways to ensure that pets, children, and other people cannot consume them. However, you should not flush this medication down the toilet. Instead, the best way to dispose of your medication is through a medicine take-back program. Talk to your pharmacist or contact your local garbage/recycling department to learn about take-back programs in your community. See the FDA's Safe Disposal of Medicines website ( http://goo.gl/c4Rm4p ) for more information if you do not have access to a take-back program. It is important to keep all medication out of sight and reach of children as many containers (such as weekly pill minders and those for eye drops, creams, patches, and inhalers) are not child-resistant and young children can open them easily. To protect young children from poisoning, always lock safety caps and immediately place the medication in a safe location – one that is up and away and out of their sight and reach. http://www.upandaway.org In case of emergency/overdose In case of overdose, call the poison control helpline at 1-800-222-1222. Information is also available online at https://www.poisonhelp.org/help . If the victim has collapsed, had a seizure, has trouble breathing, or can't be awakened, immediately call emergency services at 911. What other information should I know? Keep all appointments with your doctor. Do not let anyone else take your medication. Your prescription is probably not refillable. If you still have symptoms of infection after you finish the artemether and lumefantrine, call your doctor. It is important for you to keep a written list of all of the prescription and nonprescription (over-the-counter) medicines you are taking, as well as any products such as vitamins, minerals, or other dietary supplements. You should bring this list with you each time you visit a doctor or if you are admitted to a hospital. It is also important information to carry with you in case of emergencies.

[ Diclofenac and Misoprostol pronounced as (dye kloe' fen ak) and (mye soe prost' ole) To use the sharing features on this page, please enable JavaScript. Why is this medication prescribed? How should this medicine be used? Other uses for this medicine What special precautions should I follow? What special dietary instructions should I follow? What should I do if I forget a dose? What side effects can this medication cause? What should I know about storage and disposal of this medication? In case of emergency/overdose What other information should I know? IMPORTANT WARNING: For female patients: Do not take diclofenac and misoprostol if you are pregnant or plan to become pregnant. If you become pregnant or think you may be pregnant while taking diclofenac and misoprostol, stop taking the medication and call your doctor immediately. Diclofenac and misoprostol may cause miscarriage (pregnancy loss), serious bleeding, or premature birth (baby is born too early) if taken during pregnancy. Women who can become pregnant generally should not take diclofenac and misoprostol. However, you and your doctor may decide that diclofenac and misoprostol combination is needed to treat your condition. In that case you must: agree to use a reliable method of birth control during your treatment; have a negative blood test for pregnancy no longer than 2 weeks before you start taking diclofenac and misoprostol; begin taking the medication only on the second or third day of the next normal menstrual period. For all patients: People who take nonsteroidal anti-inflammatory drugs (NSAIDs) (other than aspirin) such as diclofenac and misoprostol combination may have a higher risk of having a heart attack or a stroke than people who do not take these medications. These events may happen without warning and may cause death. This risk may be higher for people who take NSAIDs for a long time. Do not use an NSAID such as diclofenac and misoprostol combination if you have recently had a heart attack, unless directed to do so by your doctor. Tell your doctor if you or anyone in your family has or has ever had heart disease, a heart attack, or a stroke, if you smoke, and if you have or have ever had high cholesterol, high blood pressure, or diabetes. Get emergency medical help right away if you experience any of the following symptoms: chest pain, shortness of breath, weakness in one part or side of the body, or slurred speech. If you will be undergoing a coronary artery bypass graft (CABG; a type of heart surgery), you should not take diclofenac and misoprostol right before or right after the surgery. NSAIDs such as diclofenac may cause ulcers, bleeding, or holes in the stomach or intestine. Misoprostol is taken in combination with diclofenac to protect the stomach and intestine, but may not prevent all damage to these parts of the body. Problems with the stomach and intestine may develop at any time during treatment, may happen without warning symptoms, and may cause death. The risk may be higher for people who take NSAIDs for a long time, are older in age, have poor health, smoke, or drink large amounts of alcohol while taking diclofenac and misoprostol. Tell your doctor if you take any of the following medications: anticoagulants ('blood thinners') such as warfarin (Jantoven); aspirin; other NSAIDs such as ibuprofen (Advil, Motrin) and naproxen (Aleve, Naprosyn); oral steroids such as dexamethasone, methylprednisolone (Medrol), and prednisone (Rayos); selective serotonin reuptake inhibitors (SSRIs) such as citalopram (Celexa), fluoxetine (Prozac, in Symbyax), fluvoxamine (Luvox), paroxetine (Paxil, Pexeva), and sertraline (Zoloft); or serotonin norepinephrine reuptake inhibitors (SNRIs) such as desvenlafaxine (Khedezla, Pristiq), duloxetine (Cymbalta), and venlafaxine (Effexor XR). Tell your doctor if you have any bleeding in your stomach or intestines or if you have any of these symptoms: vomiting a substance that is bloody or looks like coffee grounds, blood in the stool, or black and tarry stools. before you begin your treatment with diclofenac and misoprostol. Your doctor will probably tell you not to take diclofenac and misoprostol. Also tell your doctor if you have or have ever had ulcers or a bleeding disorder. If you experience any of the following symptoms, stop taking diclofenac and misoprostol and call your doctor: stomach pain, heartburn, vomiting a substance that is bloody or looks like coffee grounds, blood in the stool, or black and tarry stools. Keep all appointments with your doctor and the laboratory. Your doctor will monitor your symptoms carefully and will probably order certain tests to check your body's response to diclofenac and misoprostol. Be sure to tell your doctor how you are feeling so that your doctor can prescribe the right amount of medication to treat your condition with the lowest risk of serious side effects. Do not give this medication to anyone else, especially a woman who is or could become pregnant. Your doctor or pharmacist will give you the manufacturer's patient information sheet for diclofenac and misoprostol and the general Medication Guide for NSAIDs when you begin your treatment and each time you refill your prescription. Read the information carefully and ask your doctor or pharmacist if you have any questions. You can also visit the Food and Drug Administration (FDA) website ( http://www.fda.gov/Drugs/DrugSafety/ucm085729.htm ) or the manufacturer's website to obtain the patient information sheet and Medication Guide. Why is this medication prescribed? The combination of diclofenac and misoprostol is used to relieve the pain, tenderness, swelling, and stiffness caused by osteoarthritis (arthritis caused by a breakdown of the lining of the joints) and rheumatoid arthritis (arthritis caused by swelling of the lining of the joints) in patients who have a high risk of developing stomach ulcers. Diclofenac is in a class of medications called nonsteroidal anti-inflammatory drugs (NSAIDs). It works by stopping the body's production of a substance that causes pain and inflammation. Misoprostol is in a class of medications called prostaglandins. It prevents ulcers caused by diclofenac by protecting the stomach lining and decreasing stomach acid production. How should this medicine be used? The combination of diclofenac and misoprostol comes as a tablet to take by mouth. It is usually taken with food two to four times a day. To help you remember to take diclofenac and misoprostol, take it at around the same times every day. Follow the directions on your prescription label carefully, and ask your doctor or pharmacist to explain any part you do not understand. Take diclofenac and misoprostol combination exactly as directed. Do not take more or less of it or take it more often than prescribed by your doctor. Other uses for this medicine This medication may be prescribed for other uses; ask your doctor or pharmacist for more information. What special precautions should I follow? Before taking diclofenac and misoprostol, tell your doctor and pharmacist if you are allergic to diclofenac (Cambia, Cataflam, Flector, Licart, Pennsaid, Zipsor), misoprostol (Cytotec), aspirin or other NSAIDs such as ibuprofen (Advil, Motrin) and naproxen (Aleve, Naprosyn), any other medications, or any of the inactive ingredients in diclofenac and misoprostol tablets. Ask your pharmacist for a list of the inactive ingredients. tell your doctor and pharmacist what prescription and nonprescription medications, vitamins, nutritional supplements, and herbal products you are taking or plan to take. Be sure to mention any of the medications listed in the IMPORTANT WARNING section. Your doctor may need to change the doses of your medications or monitor you carefully for side effects. talk to your doctor if you need to take an antacid during your treatment with diclofenac and misoprostol. You should not take antacids that contain magnesium (Mylanta, others). tell your doctor if you have or have ever had any of the conditions mentioned in the IMPORTANT WARNING section or inflammatory bowel disease (swelling of the lining of the intestine that may cause painful or bloody diarrhea and cramping); asthma, especially if you also have frequent stuffed or runny nose or nasal polyps (swelling of the lining of the nose); heart failure; liver or kidney disease; or swelling of the hands, feet, ankles, or lower legs. tell your doctor if you are breast-feeding. if you are having surgery, including dental surgery, tell the doctor or dentist that you are taking diclofenac and misoprostol. What special dietary instructions should I follow? Unless your doctor tells you otherwise, continue your normal diet. What should I do if I forget a dose? Take the missed dose as soon as you remember it. However, if it is almost time for the next dose, skip the missed dose and continue your regular dosing schedule. Do not take a double dose to make up for a missed one. What side effects can this medication cause? Diclofenac and misoprostol may cause side effects. Tell your doctor if any of these symptoms are severe or do not go away: gas or bloating constipation headache Some side effects can be serious. If you experience any of the following symptoms or those mentioned in the IMPORTANT WARNING section, call your doctor immediately or get emergency medical help. Do not take any more diclofenac and misoprostol until you speak to your doctor. diarrhea unexplained weight gain shortness of breath or difficulty breathing swelling in the abdomen, ankles, feet, or legs unusual tiredness or weakness lack of energy upset stomach loss of appetite pain in the upper right part of the stomach yellowing of the skin or eyes flu-like symptoms pale skin fast heartbeat rash or blistering or peeling skin with fever hives itching swelling of the eyes, face, lips, tongue, throat, arms, or hands difficulty swallowing hoarseness unusual vaginal bleeding cloudy, discolored, or bloody urine back pain difficult or painful urination Diclofenac and misoprostol may cause other side effects. Call your doctor if you have any unusual problems while taking this medication. If you experience a serious side effect, you or your doctor may send a report to the Food and Drug Administration's (FDA) MedWatch Adverse Event Reporting program online ( http://www.fda.gov/Safety/MedWatch ) or by phone (1-800-332-1088). What should I know about storage and disposal of this medication? Keep this medication in the container it came in, tightly closed, and out of reach of children. Store it at room temperature and away from excess heat and moisture (not in the bathroom). Unneeded medications should be disposed of in special ways to ensure that pets, children, and other people cannot consume them. However, you should not flush this medication down the toilet. Instead, the best way to dispose of your medication is through a medicine take-back program. Talk to your pharmacist or contact your local garbage/recycling department to learn about take-back programs in your community. See the FDA's Safe Disposal of Medicines website ( http://goo.gl/c4Rm4p ) for more information if you do not have access to a take-back program. It is important to keep all medication out of sight and reach of children as many containers (such as weekly pill minders and those for eye drops, creams, patches, and inhalers) are not child-resistant and young children can open them easily. To protect young children from poisoning, always lock safety caps and immediately place the medication in a safe location – one that is up and away and out of their sight and reach. http://www.upandaway.org In case of emergency/overdose In case of overdose, call the poison control helpline at 1-800-222-1222. Information is also available online at https://www.poisonhelp.org/help . If the victim has collapsed, had a seizure, has trouble breathing, or can't be awakened, immediately call emergency services at 911. Symptoms of overdose may include: stomach pain nausea vomiting diarrhea confusion drowsiness low muscle tone uncontrollable shaking of a part of the body seizures shortness of breath fever fast, pounding, or slow heartbeat What other information should I know? Before having any laboratory test, tell your doctor and the laboratory personnel that you are taking diclofenac and misoprostol. Do not let anyone else take your medication. Ask your pharmacist any questions you have about refilling your prescription. It is important for you to keep a written list of all of the prescription and nonprescription (over-the-counter) medicines you are taking, as well as any products such as vitamins, minerals, or other dietary supplements. You should bring this list with you each time you visit a doctor or if you are admitted to a hospital. It is also important information to carry with you in case of emergencies.

[ Morphine pronounced as (mor' feen) To use the sharing features on this page, please enable JavaScript. Why is this medication prescribed? How should this medicine be used? Other uses for this medicine What special precautions should I follow? What special dietary instructions should I follow? What should I do if I forget a dose? What side effects can this medication cause? What should I know about storage and disposal of this medication? In case of emergency/overdose What other information should I know? Brand names IMPORTANT WARNING: Morphine may be habit forming, especially with prolonged use. Take morphine exactly as directed. Do not take more of it, take it more often, or take it in a different way than directed by your doctor. While you are taking morphine, discuss with your healthcare provider your pain treatment goals, length of treatment, and other ways to manage your pain. Tell your doctor if you or anyone in your family drinks or has ever drunk large amounts of alcohol, uses or has ever used street drugs, or has overused prescription medications, or has had an overdose, or if you have or have ever had depression or another mental illness. There is a greater risk that you will overuse morphine if you have or have ever had any of these conditions. Talk to your healthcare provider immediately and ask for guidance if you think that you have an opioid addiction or call the U.S. Substance Abuse and Mental Health Services Administration (SAMHSA) National Helpline at 1-800-662-HELP. Morphine may cause serious or life-threatening breathing problems, especially during the first 24 to 72 hours of your treatment and any time your dose is increased. Your doctor will monitor you carefully during your treatment. Your doctor will adjust your dose carefully to control your pain and decrease the risk that you will experience serious breathing problems. Tell your doctor if you have or have ever had slowed breathing or asthma. Your doctor may tell you not to take morphine. Also tell your doctor if you have or have ever had lung disease such as chronic obstructive pulmonary disease (COPD; a group of lung diseases that includes chronic bronchitis and emphysema), a head injury, a brain tumor, or any condition that increases the amount of pressure in your brain. The risk that you will develop breathing problems may be higher if you are an older adult or are weakened or malnourished due to disease. If you experience any of the following symptoms, call your doctor immediately or get emergency medical treatment: slowed breathing, long pauses between breaths, or shortness of breath. Do not allow anyone else to take your medication. Morphine may harm or cause death to other people who take your medication, especially children. Keep morphine in a safe place so that no one else can take it accidentally or on purpose. Be especially careful to keep morphine out of the reach of children. Keep track of how many tablets or capsules, or how much liquid is left so you will know if any medication is missing. Dispose of any unneeded morphine tablets, capsules, or liquid properly according to instructions. (See STORAGE and DISPOSAL.) Taking certain other medications during your treatment with morphine may increase the risk that you will experience breathing problems or other serious, life-threatening breathing problems, sedation, or coma. Tell your doctor and pharmacist what prescription and nonprescription medications, vitamins, nutritional supplements, and herbal products you are taking or plan to take. If you take morphine with other medications and you develop any of the following symptoms, call your doctor immediately or seek emergency medical care: unusual dizziness, lightheadedness, extreme sleepiness, slowed or difficult breathing, or unresponsiveness. Be sure that your caregiver or family members know which symptoms may be serious so they can call the doctor or emergency medical care if you are unable to seek treatment on your own. Drinking alcohol, taking prescription or nonprescription medications that contain alcohol, or using street drugs during your treatment with morphine increases the risk that you will experience breathing problems or other serious, life-threatening side effects. If you are taking long-acting capsules, it is especially important that you do not drink any drinks that contain alcohol or take any prescription or nonprescription medications that contain alcohol. Alcohol may cause the morphine in long-acting capsules to be released in your body too quickly, causing serious health problems or death. Do not drink alcohol, take any prescription or nonprescription medications that contain alcohol, or use street drugs during your treatment with morphine products. Swallow the extended-release tablets or capsules whole. Do not split, chew, dissolve, or crush them. If you swallow broken, chewed, crushed, or dissolved extended-release tablets or capsules, you may receive too much morphine at once instead of receiving the medication slowly over time. This may cause serious breathing problems or death. If you are unable to swallow the capsules whole, follow the instructions in the ''HOW should this medication be used?'' section below to dissolve the capsule contents in applesauce. Morphine oral solution (liquid) comes in three different concentrations (amount of medication contained in a given amount of solution). The solution with the highest concentration (100 mg/5 mL) should only be taken by people who are tolerant (used to the effects of the medication) to opioid medications. Each time you receive your medication, check to be sure that you receive the solution with the concentration prescribed by your doctor. Be sure that you know how much medication you should take and how to measure your dose. Tell your doctor if you are pregnant or plan to become pregnant. If you take morphine regularly during your pregnancy, your baby may experience life-threatening withdrawal symptoms after birth. Tell your baby's doctor right away if your baby experiences any of the following symptoms: irritability, hyperactivity, abnormal sleep, high-pitched cry, uncontrollable shaking of a part of the body, vomiting, diarrhea, or failure to gain weight. Your doctor or pharmacist will give you the manufacturer's patient information sheet (Medication Guide) when you begin treatment with morphine and each time you fill your prescription if a Medication Guide is available for the morphine product you are taking. Read the information carefully and ask your doctor or pharmacist if you have any questions. You can also visit the Food and Drug Administration (FDA) website ( http://www.fda.gov/Drugs/DrugSafety/ucm085729.htm ) or the manufacturer's website to obtain the Medication Guide. Why is this medication prescribed? Morphine immediate-release tablets and oral solution are used to relieve severe, acute pain (pain that begins suddenly, has a specific cause, and is expected to go away when the cause of the pain is healed) and chronic pain in people who are expected to need an opioid pain medication and who cannot be treated with other pain medications. Morphine extended-release tablets and capsules are used to relieve severe and persistent pain in people who are expected to need an opioid pain medication around the clock and who cannot be treated with other pain medications. Morphine extended-release tablets and capsules should not be used to treat pain that can be controlled by medication that is taken as needed. Morphine is in a class of medications called opiate (narcotic) analgesics. It works by changing the way the brain and nervous system respond to pain. How should this medicine be used? Morphine comes as a solution (liquid), an immediate-release tablet, an extended-release (long-acting) tablet, and as an extended-release (long-acting) capsule to take by mouth. The oral solution and immediate-release tablets are usually taken every 4 hours as needed for pain. The extended-release tablets that are usually taken every 8 or every 12 hours. The extended-release capsules are usually taken with or without food every 12 hours or every 24 hours. Follow the directions on your prescription label carefully, and ask your doctor or pharmacist to explain any part you do not understand. If you are taking morphine solution, use the dosing cup or syringe that comes with the medication to measure your dose. Be sure that you know how many milliliters of the liquid you should take. Ask your pharmacist if you have any question about how much medication you should take or how to use the dosing cup or syringe. If you are taking extended-release capsules and you have a gastrostomy tube (surgically inserted feeding tube), ask your doctor or pharmacist how to administer the medication through your tube. If you are unable to swallow the extended-release capsules, you can carefully open a capsule, sprinkle all of the beads that it contains on a spoonful of cold or room temperature applesauce, and swallow the entire mixture immediately without chewing or crushing the beads. Then rinse your mouth with a little water and swallow the water to be sure that you have swallowed all the medication. Do not mix the beads into any other food. Do not save mixtures of medication and applesauce for later. Your doctor may adjust your dose of morphine during your treatment, depending on how well your pain is controlled and on the side effects that you experience. Talk to your doctor about how you are feeling during your treatment with morphine. Tell your doctor if you feel that your pain is not controlled or if your pain increases, becomes worse, or if you have new pain or an increased sensitivity to pain during your treatment with morphine. Do not take more of it or take it more often than prescribed by your doctor. Do not stop taking morphine without talking to your doctor. Your doctor may decrease your dose gradually. If you suddenly stop taking morphine, you may experience withdrawal symptoms such as restlessness; teary eyes; runny nose; yawning; irritability; anxiety; sweating; difficulty falling asleep or staying asleep; chills; back, muscle, or joint pain; nausea; vomiting; loss of appetite; diarrhea; stomach cramps; weakness; fast heartbeat; or fast breathing. Your doctor will probably decrease your dose gradually. Other uses for this medicine This medication is sometimes prescribed for other uses; ask your doctor or pharmacist for more information. What special precautions should I follow? Before taking morphine, tell your doctor and pharmacist if you are allergic to morphine, any other medications, or any of the inactive ingredients in the type of morphine product you plan to take. Ask your pharmacist or check the Medication Guide for a list of the inactive ingredients. tell your doctor or pharmacist if you are taking the following medications or have stopped taking them within the past two weeks: isocarboxazid (Marplan), linezolid (Zyvox), methylene blue, phenelzine (Nardil), selegiline (Emsam, Zelapar), or tranylcypromine (Parnate). tell your doctor if you have or have ever had any of the conditions mentioned in the IMPORTANT WARNING section, a blockage or narrowing of your stomach or intestines, or paralytic ileus (condition in which digested food does not move through the intestines). Your doctor may tell you not to take morphine. tell your doctor if you have or have ever had seizures; difficulty swallowing; problems urinating; low blood pressure; adrenal insufficiency (condition in which the adrenal glands do not produce enough of certain hormones needed for important body functions); or liver, kidney, pancreas, thyroid, or gallbladder disease. tell your doctor if you are breastfeeding. You should not breastfeed while you are taking morphine. Morphine can cause shallow breathing, difficulty or noisy breathing, confusion, more than usual sleepiness, trouble breastfeeding, or limpness in breastfed infants. you should know that this medication may decrease fertility in men and women. Talk to your doctor about the risks of taking morphine. if you are having surgery, including dental surgery, tell the doctor or dentist that you are taking morphine. you should know that this medication may make you drowsy. Do not drive a car or operate machinery until you know how this medication affects you. you should know that morphine may cause dizziness, lightheadedness, and fainting when you get up too quickly from a lying position. To avoid this problem, get out of bed slowly, resting your feet on the floor for a few minutes before standing up. you should know that morphine may cause constipation. Talk to your doctor about changing your diet or using other medications to prevent or treat constipation while you are taking morphine. What special dietary instructions should I follow? Unless your doctor tells you otherwise, continue your normal diet. What should I do if I forget a dose? If you are taking morphine tablets or liquid, your doctor will probably tell you to take the medication as needed. If you have been told to take scheduled doses of the tablets or liquid or if you are taking an extended-release product, take the missed dose as soon as you remember it, and do not take the next dose at your regularly scheduled time. Instead, allow the same amount of time that you usually allow between doses before taking your next dose. If you remember when it is almost time for the next dose, skip the missed dose and continue your regular dosing schedule. Do not take a double dose to make up for a missed one. What side effects can this medication cause? Morphine may cause side effects. Tell your doctor if any of these symptoms are severe or do not go away: drowsiness stomach pain and cramps dry mouth headache nervousness mood changes small pupils (black circles in the middle of the eyes difficulty urinating Some side effects can be serious. If you experience any of the following symptoms, call your doctor immediately: blue or purple color to the skin changes in heartbeat agitation, hallucinations (seeing things or hearing voices that do not exist), fever, sweating, confusion, fast heartbeat, shivering, severe muscle stiffness or twitching, loss of coordination, or diarrhea nausea, vomiting, loss of appetite, weakness, or dizziness inability to get or keep an erection irregular menstruation decreased sexual desire seizures extreme drowsiness fainting chest pain hives; rash; itching; swelling of the eyes, face, mouth, lips or throat; hoarseness; difficulty breathing or swallowing Morphine may cause other side effects. Call your doctor if you have any unusual problems while you are taking this medication. If you experience a serious side effect, you or your doctor may send a report to the Food and Drug Administration's (FDA) MedWatch Adverse Event Reporting program online ( http://www.fda.gov/Safety/MedWatch ) or by phone (1-800-332-1088). What should I know about storage and disposal of this medication? Keep this medication in the container it came in, tightly closed, and out of reach of children, and in a location that is not easily accessible by others, including visitors to the home. Store it at room temperature and away from excess heat and moisture (not in the bathroom). You must immediately dispose of any medication that is outdated or no longer needed through a medicine take-back program. If you do not have a take-back program nearby or one that you can access promptly, flush any morphine extended-release tablets, extended-release capsules, and liquid that are outdated or no longer needed down the toilet so that others will not take them. Talk to your pharmacist about the proper disposal of your medication. It is important to keep all medication out of sight and reach of children as many containers (such as weekly pill minders and those for eye drops, creams, patches, and inhalers) are not child-resistant and young children can open them easily. To protect young children from poisoning, always lock safety caps and immediately place the medication in a safe location – one that is up and away and out of their sight and reach. http://www.upandaway.org In case of emergency/overdose In case of overdose, call the poison control helpline at 1-800-222-1222. Information is also available online at https://www.poisonhelp.org/help . If the victim has collapsed, had a seizure, has trouble breathing, or can't be awakened, immediately call emergency services at 911. While taking morphine, you should talk to your doctor about having a rescue medication called naloxone readily available (e.g., home, office). Naloxone is used to reverse the life-threatening effects of an overdose. It works by blocking the effects of opiates to relieve dangerous symptoms caused by high levels of opiates in the blood. Your doctor may also prescribe you naloxone if you are living in a household where there are small children or someone who has abused street or prescription drugs. Ask your doctor about other ways that you can obtain naloxone (directly from a pharmacy or as part of a community based program). You should make sure that you and your family members, caregivers, or the people who spend time with you know how to recognize an overdose, how to use naloxone, and what to do until emergency medical help arrives. Your doctor or pharmacist will show you and your family members how to use the medication. Ask your pharmacist for the instructions or visit the manufacturer's website to get the instructions. If symptoms of an overdose occur, a friend or family member should give the first dose of naloxone, call 911 immediately, and stay with you and watch you closely until emergency medical help arrives. Your symptoms may return within a few minutes after you receive naloxone. If your symptoms return, the person should give you another dose of naloxone. Additional doses may be given every 2 to 3 minutes, if symptoms return before medical help arrives. Symptoms of overdose may include the following: slow, shallow, or irregular breathing difficulty breathing excessive sleepiness unable to respond or wake up limp or weak muscles cold, clammy skin narrowing or widening of the pupils (dark circle in the eye) slow heartbeat unusual snoring What other information should I know? Keep all appointments with your doctor and laboratory. Your doctor may order certain lab tests to check your body's response to morphine. Before having any laboratory test (especially those that involve methylene blue), tell your doctor and the laboratory personnel that you are taking morphine. This prescription is not refillable. If you are taking morphine to control your pain on a long term basis, be sure to schedule appointments with your doctor so that you do not run out of medication. If you are taking morphine on a short-term basis, call your doctor if you continue to experience pain after you finish the medication. It is important for you to keep a written list of all of the prescription and nonprescription (over-the-counter) medicines you are taking, as well as any products such as vitamins, minerals, or other dietary supplements. You should bring this list with you each time you visit a doctor or if you are admitted to a hospital. It is also important information to carry with you in case of emergencies. Brand names Arymo ® ER ¶ Avinza ® ¶ Kadian ® ¶ Morphabond ® ¶ MS Contin ® Oramorph ® SR ¶





[ Aspirin pronounced as (as' pir in) To use the sharing features on this page, please enable JavaScript. Why is this medication prescribed? How should this medicine be used? Other uses for this medicine What special precautions should I follow? What special dietary instructions should I follow? What should I do if I forget a dose? What side effects can this medication cause? What should I know about storage and disposal of this medication? In case of emergency/overdose What other information should I know? Brand names Other names Why is this medication prescribed? Prescription aspirin is used to relieve the symptoms of rheumatoid arthritis (arthritis caused by swelling of the lining of the joints), osteoarthritis (arthritis caused by breakdown of the lining of the joints), systemic lupus erythematosus (condition in which the immune system attacks the joints and organs and causes pain and swelling) and certain other rheumatologic conditions (conditions in which the immune system attacks parts of the body). Nonprescription aspirin is used to reduce fever and to relieve mild to moderate pain from headaches, menstrual periods, arthritis, toothaches, and muscle aches. Nonprescription aspirin is also used to prevent heart attacks in people who have had a heart attack in the past or who have angina (chest pain that occurs when the heart does not get enough oxygen). Nonprescription aspirin is also used to reduce the risk of death in people who are experiencing or who have recently experienced a heart attack. Nonprescription aspirin is also used to prevent ischemic strokes (strokes that occur when a blood clot blocks the flow of blood to the brain) or mini-strokes (strokes that occur when the flow of blood to the brain is blocked for a short time) in people who have had this type of stroke or mini-stroke in the past. Aspirin will not prevent hemorrhagic strokes (strokes caused by bleeding in the brain). Aspirin is in a group of medications called salicylates. It works by stopping the production of certain natural substances that cause fever, pain, swelling, and blood clots. Aspirin is also available in combination with other medications such as antacids, pain relievers, and cough and cold medications. This monograph only includes information about the use of aspirin alone. If you are taking a combination product, read the information on the package or prescription label or ask your doctor or pharmacist for more information. How should this medicine be used? Prescription aspirin comes as an extended-release (long-acting) tablet. Nonprescription aspirin comes as a regular tablet, a delayed-release (releases the medication in the intestine to prevent damage to the stomach) tablet, a chewable tablet, powder, and a gum to take by mouth. Prescription aspirin is usually taken two or more times a day. Nonprescription aspirin is usually taken once a day to lower the risk of a heart attack or stroke. Nonprescription aspirin is usually taken every 4 to 6 hours as needed to treat fever or pain. Follow the directions on the package or prescription label carefully, and ask your doctor or pharmacist to explain any part you do not understand. Take aspirin exactly as directed. Do not take more or less of it or take it more often than directed by the package label or prescribed by your doctor. Swallow the extended-release tablets whole with a full glass of water. Do not break, crush, or chew them. Swallow the delayed-release tablets with a full glass of water. Chewable aspirin tablets may be chewed, crushed, or swallowed whole. Drink a full glass of water, immediately after taking these tablets. Ask a doctor before you give aspirin to your child or teenager. Aspirin may cause Reye's syndrome (a serious condition in which fat builds up on the brain, liver, and other body organs) in children and teenagers, especially if they have a virus such as chicken pox or the flu. If you have had oral surgery or surgery to remove your tonsils in the last 7 days, talk to your doctor about which types of aspirin are safe for you. Delayed-release tablets begin to work some time after they are taken. Do not take delayed-release tablets for fever or pain that must be relieved quickly. Stop taking aspirin and call your doctor if your fever lasts longer than 3 days, if your pain lasts longer than 10 days, or if the part of your body that was painful becomes red or swollen. You may have a condition that must be treated by a doctor. Other uses for this medicine Aspirin is also sometimes used to treat rheumatic fever (a serious condition that may develop after a strep throat infection and may cause swelling of the heart valves) and Kawasaki disease (an illness that may cause heart problems in children). Aspirin is also sometimes used to lower the risk of blood clots in patients who have artificial heart valves or certain other heart conditions and to prevent certain complications of pregnancy. What special precautions should I follow? Before taking aspirin, tell your doctor and pharmacist if you are allergic to aspirin, other medications for pain or fever, tartrazine dye, or any other medications. tell your doctor and pharmacist what prescription and nonprescription medications, vitamins, nutritional supplements, and herbal products you are taking or plan to take. Be sure to mention any of the following: acetazolamide (Diamox); angiotensin-converting enzyme (ACE) inhibitors such as benazepril (Lotensin), captopril (Capoten), enalapril (Vasotec), fosinopril (Monopril), lisinopril (Prinivil, Zestril), moexipril (Univasc), perindopril, (Aceon), quinapril (Accupril), ramipril (Altace), and trandolapril (Mavik); anticoagulants ('blood thinners') such as warfarin (Coumadin) and heparin; beta blockers such as atenolol (Tenormin), labetalol (Normodyne), metoprolol (Lopressor, Toprol XL), nadolol (Corgard), and propranolol (Inderal); diuretics ('water pills'); medications for diabetes or arthritis; medications for gout such as probenecid and sulfinpyrazone (Anturane); methotrexate (Trexall); other nonsteroidal anti-inflammatory drugs (NSAIDs) such as naproxen (Aleve, Naprosyn); phenytoin (Dilantin); and valproic acid (Depakene, Depakote). Your doctor may need to change the doses of your medications or monitor you more carefully for side effects. if you are taking aspirin on a regular basis to prevent heart attack or stroke, do not take ibuprofen (Advil, Motrin) to treat pain or fever without talking to your doctor. Your doctor will probably tell you to allow some time to pass between taking your daily dose of aspirin and taking a dose of ibuprofen. tell your doctor if you have or have ever had asthma, frequent stuffed or runny nose, or nasal polyps (growths on the linings of the nose). If you have these conditions, there is a risk that you will have an allergic reaction to aspirin. Your doctor may tell you that you should not take aspirin. tell your doctor if you often have heartburn, upset stomach, or stomach pain and if you have or have ever had ulcers, anemia, bleeding problems such as hemophilia, or kidney or liver disease. tell your doctor if you are pregnant, you plan to become pregnant, or if you are breast-feeding. Low dose aspirin 81-mg may be taken during pregnancy, but aspirin doses greater that 81 mg may harm the fetus and cause problems with delivery if it is taken around 20 weeks or later during pregnancy. Do not take aspirin doses greater that 81 mg (e.g., 325 mg) around or after 20 weeks of pregnancy, unless told to do so by your doctor. If you become pregnant while taking aspirin or aspirin containing medications, call your doctor. if you are having surgery, including dental surgery, tell the doctor or dentist that you are taking aspirin. if you drink three or more alcoholic drinks every day, ask your doctor if you should take aspirin or other medications for pain and fever. What special dietary instructions should I follow? Unless your doctor tells you otherwise, continue your normal diet. What should I do if I forget a dose? If your doctor has told you to take aspirin on a regular basis and you miss a dose, take the missed dose as soon as you remember it. However, if it is almost time for the next dose, skip the missed dose and continue your regular dosing schedule. Do not take a double dose to make up for a missed one. What side effects can this medication cause? Aspirin may cause side effects. Tell your doctor if any of these symptoms are severe or do not go away: nausea vomiting stomach pain heartburn Some side effects can be serious. If you experience any of the following symptoms, call your doctor immediately: hives rash swelling of the eyes, face, lips, tongue, or throat wheezing or difficulty breathing hoarseness fast heartbeat fast breathing cold, clammy skin ringing in the ears loss of hearing bloody vomit vomit that looks like coffee grounds bright red blood in stools black or tarry stools Aspirin may cause other side effects. Call your doctor if you experience any unusual problems while you are taking this medication. If you experience a serious side effect, you or your doctor may send a report to the Food and Drug Administration's (FDA) MedWatch Adverse Event Reporting program online ( http://www.fda.gov/Safety/MedWatch ) or by phone (1-800-332-1088). What should I know about storage and disposal of this medication? Keep this medication in the container it came in, tightly closed, and out of reach of children. Store it at room temperature and away from excess heat and moisture (not in the bathroom). Dispose of any tablets that have a strong vinegar smell. It is important to keep all medication out of sight and reach of children as many containers (such as weekly pill minders and those for eye drops, creams, patches, and inhalers) are not child-resistant and young children can open them easily. To protect young children from poisoning, always lock safety caps and immediately place the medication in a safe location – one that is up and away and out of their sight and reach. http://www.upandaway.org Unneeded medications should be disposed of in special ways to ensure that pets, children, and other people cannot consume them. However, you should not flush this medication down the toilet. Instead, the best way to dispose of your medication is through a medicine take-back program. Talk to your pharmacist or contact your local garbage/recycling department to learn about take-back programs in your community. See the FDA's Safe Disposal of Medicines website ( http://goo.gl/c4Rm4p ) for more information if you do not have access to a take-back program. In case of emergency/overdose In case of overdose, call the poison control helpline at 1-800-222-1222. Information is also available online at https://www.poisonhelp.org/help . If the victim has collapsed, had a seizure, has trouble breathing, or can't be awakened, immediately call emergency services at 911. Symptoms of overdose may include: burning pain in the throat or stomach vomiting decreased urination fever restlessness irritability talking a lot and saying things that do not make sense fear or nervousness dizziness double vision uncontrollable shaking of a part of the body confusion abnormally excited mood hallucination (seeing things or hearing voices that are not there) seizures drowsiness loss of consciousness for a period of time What other information should I know? Keep all appointments with your doctor. If you are taking prescription aspirin, do not let anyone else take your medication. Ask your pharmacist any questions you have about refilling your prescription. It is important for you to keep a written list of all of the prescription and nonprescription (over-the-counter) medicines you are taking, as well as any products such as vitamins, minerals, or other dietary supplements. You should bring this list with you each time you visit a doctor or if you are admitted to a hospital. It is also important information to carry with you in case of emergencies. Brand names Acuprin ® Anacin ® Aspirin Regimen Ascriptin ® Aspergum ® Aspidrox ® Aspir-Mox ® Aspirtab ® Aspir-trin ® Bayer ® Aspirin Bufferin ® Buffex ® Easprin ® Ecotrin ® Empirin ® Entaprin ® Entercote ® Fasprin ® Genacote ® Gennin-FC ® Genprin ® Halfprin ® Magnaprin ® Miniprin ® Minitabs ® Ridiprin ® Sloprin ® Uni-Buff ® Uni-Tren ® Valomag ® Zorprin ®













[ Aspirin pronounced as (as' pir in) To use the sharing features on this page, please enable JavaScript. Why is this medication prescribed? How should this medicine be used? Other uses for this medicine What special precautions should I follow? What special dietary instructions should I follow? What should I do if I forget a dose? What side effects can this medication cause? What should I know about storage and disposal of this medication? In case of emergency/overdose What other information should I know? Brand names Other names Why is this medication prescribed? Prescription aspirin is used to relieve the symptoms of rheumatoid arthritis (arthritis caused by swelling of the lining of the joints), osteoarthritis (arthritis caused by breakdown of the lining of the joints), systemic lupus erythematosus (condition in which the immune system attacks the joints and organs and causes pain and swelling) and certain other rheumatologic conditions (conditions in which the immune system attacks parts of the body). Nonprescription aspirin is used to reduce fever and to relieve mild to moderate pain from headaches, menstrual periods, arthritis, toothaches, and muscle aches. Nonprescription aspirin is also used to prevent heart attacks in people who have had a heart attack in the past or who have angina (chest pain that occurs when the heart does not get enough oxygen). Nonprescription aspirin is also used to reduce the risk of death in people who are experiencing or who have recently experienced a heart attack. Nonprescription aspirin is also used to prevent ischemic strokes (strokes that occur when a blood clot blocks the flow of blood to the brain) or mini-strokes (strokes that occur when the flow of blood to the brain is blocked for a short time) in people who have had this type of stroke or mini-stroke in the past. Aspirin will not prevent hemorrhagic strokes (strokes caused by bleeding in the brain). Aspirin is in a group of medications called salicylates. It works by stopping the production of certain natural substances that cause fever, pain, swelling, and blood clots. Aspirin is also available in combination with other medications such as antacids, pain relievers, and cough and cold medications. This monograph only includes information about the use of aspirin alone. If you are taking a combination product, read the information on the package or prescription label or ask your doctor or pharmacist for more information. How should this medicine be used? Prescription aspirin comes as an extended-release (long-acting) tablet. Nonprescription aspirin comes as a regular tablet, a delayed-release (releases the medication in the intestine to prevent damage to the stomach) tablet, a chewable tablet, powder, and a gum to take by mouth. Prescription aspirin is usually taken two or more times a day. Nonprescription aspirin is usually taken once a day to lower the risk of a heart attack or stroke. Nonprescription aspirin is usually taken every 4 to 6 hours as needed to treat fever or pain. Follow the directions on the package or prescription label carefully, and ask your doctor or pharmacist to explain any part you do not understand. Take aspirin exactly as directed. Do not take more or less of it or take it more often than directed by the package label or prescribed by your doctor. Swallow the extended-release tablets whole with a full glass of water. Do not break, crush, or chew them. Swallow the delayed-release tablets with a full glass of water. Chewable aspirin tablets may be chewed, crushed, or swallowed whole. Drink a full glass of water, immediately after taking these tablets. Ask a doctor before you give aspirin to your child or teenager. Aspirin may cause Reye's syndrome (a serious condition in which fat builds up on the brain, liver, and other body organs) in children and teenagers, especially if they have a virus such as chicken pox or the flu. If you have had oral surgery or surgery to remove your tonsils in the last 7 days, talk to your doctor about which types of aspirin are safe for you. Delayed-release tablets begin to work some time after they are taken. Do not take delayed-release tablets for fever or pain that must be relieved quickly. Stop taking aspirin and call your doctor if your fever lasts longer than 3 days, if your pain lasts longer than 10 days, or if the part of your body that was painful becomes red or swollen. You may have a condition that must be treated by a doctor. Other uses for this medicine Aspirin is also sometimes used to treat rheumatic fever (a serious condition that may develop after a strep throat infection and may cause swelling of the heart valves) and Kawasaki disease (an illness that may cause heart problems in children). Aspirin is also sometimes used to lower the risk of blood clots in patients who have artificial heart valves or certain other heart conditions and to prevent certain complications of pregnancy. What special precautions should I follow? Before taking aspirin, tell your doctor and pharmacist if you are allergic to aspirin, other medications for pain or fever, tartrazine dye, or any other medications. tell your doctor and pharmacist what prescription and nonprescription medications, vitamins, nutritional supplements, and herbal products you are taking or plan to take. Be sure to mention any of the following: acetazolamide (Diamox); angiotensin-converting enzyme (ACE) inhibitors such as benazepril (Lotensin), captopril (Capoten), enalapril (Vasotec), fosinopril (Monopril), lisinopril (Prinivil, Zestril), moexipril (Univasc), perindopril, (Aceon), quinapril (Accupril), ramipril (Altace), and trandolapril (Mavik); anticoagulants ('blood thinners') such as warfarin (Coumadin) and heparin; beta blockers such as atenolol (Tenormin), labetalol (Normodyne), metoprolol (Lopressor, Toprol XL), nadolol (Corgard), and propranolol (Inderal); diuretics ('water pills'); medications for diabetes or arthritis; medications for gout such as probenecid and sulfinpyrazone (Anturane); methotrexate (Trexall); other nonsteroidal anti-inflammatory drugs (NSAIDs) such as naproxen (Aleve, Naprosyn); phenytoin (Dilantin); and valproic acid (Depakene, Depakote). Your doctor may need to change the doses of your medications or monitor you more carefully for side effects. if you are taking aspirin on a regular basis to prevent heart attack or stroke, do not take ibuprofen (Advil, Motrin) to treat pain or fever without talking to your doctor. Your doctor will probably tell you to allow some time to pass between taking your daily dose of aspirin and taking a dose of ibuprofen. tell your doctor if you have or have ever had asthma, frequent stuffed or runny nose, or nasal polyps (growths on the linings of the nose). If you have these conditions, there is a risk that you will have an allergic reaction to aspirin. Your doctor may tell you that you should not take aspirin. tell your doctor if you often have heartburn, upset stomach, or stomach pain and if you have or have ever had ulcers, anemia, bleeding problems such as hemophilia, or kidney or liver disease. tell your doctor if you are pregnant, you plan to become pregnant, or if you are breast-feeding. Low dose aspirin 81-mg may be taken during pregnancy, but aspirin doses greater that 81 mg may harm the fetus and cause problems with delivery if it is taken around 20 weeks or later during pregnancy. Do not take aspirin doses greater that 81 mg (e.g., 325 mg) around or after 20 weeks of pregnancy, unless told to do so by your doctor. If you become pregnant while taking aspirin or aspirin containing medications, call your doctor. if you are having surgery, including dental surgery, tell the doctor or dentist that you are taking aspirin. if you drink three or more alcoholic drinks every day, ask your doctor if you should take aspirin or other medications for pain and fever. What special dietary instructions should I follow? Unless your doctor tells you otherwise, continue your normal diet. What should I do if I forget a dose? If your doctor has told you to take aspirin on a regular basis and you miss a dose, take the missed dose as soon as you remember it. However, if it is almost time for the next dose, skip the missed dose and continue your regular dosing schedule. Do not take a double dose to make up for a missed one. What side effects can this medication cause? Aspirin may cause side effects. Tell your doctor if any of these symptoms are severe or do not go away: nausea vomiting stomach pain heartburn Some side effects can be serious. If you experience any of the following symptoms, call your doctor immediately: hives rash swelling of the eyes, face, lips, tongue, or throat wheezing or difficulty breathing hoarseness fast heartbeat fast breathing cold, clammy skin ringing in the ears loss of hearing bloody vomit vomit that looks like coffee grounds bright red blood in stools black or tarry stools Aspirin may cause other side effects. Call your doctor if you experience any unusual problems while you are taking this medication. If you experience a serious side effect, you or your doctor may send a report to the Food and Drug Administration's (FDA) MedWatch Adverse Event Reporting program online ( http://www.fda.gov/Safety/MedWatch ) or by phone (1-800-332-1088). What should I know about storage and disposal of this medication? Keep this medication in the container it came in, tightly closed, and out of reach of children. Store it at room temperature and away from excess heat and moisture (not in the bathroom). Dispose of any tablets that have a strong vinegar smell. It is important to keep all medication out of sight and reach of children as many containers (such as weekly pill minders and those for eye drops, creams, patches, and inhalers) are not child-resistant and young children can open them easily. To protect young children from poisoning, always lock safety caps and immediately place the medication in a safe location – one that is up and away and out of their sight and reach. http://www.upandaway.org Unneeded medications should be disposed of in special ways to ensure that pets, children, and other people cannot consume them. However, you should not flush this medication down the toilet. Instead, the best way to dispose of your medication is through a medicine take-back program. Talk to your pharmacist or contact your local garbage/recycling department to learn about take-back programs in your community. See the FDA's Safe Disposal of Medicines website ( http://goo.gl/c4Rm4p ) for more information if you do not have access to a take-back program. In case of emergency/overdose In case of overdose, call the poison control helpline at 1-800-222-1222. Information is also available online at https://www.poisonhelp.org/help . If the victim has collapsed, had a seizure, has trouble breathing, or can't be awakened, immediately call emergency services at 911. Symptoms of overdose may include: burning pain in the throat or stomach vomiting decreased urination fever restlessness irritability talking a lot and saying things that do not make sense fear or nervousness dizziness double vision uncontrollable shaking of a part of the body confusion abnormally excited mood hallucination (seeing things or hearing voices that are not there) seizures drowsiness loss of consciousness for a period of time What other information should I know? Keep all appointments with your doctor. If you are taking prescription aspirin, do not let anyone else take your medication. Ask your pharmacist any questions you have about refilling your prescription. It is important for you to keep a written list of all of the prescription and nonprescription (over-the-counter) medicines you are taking, as well as any products such as vitamins, minerals, or other dietary supplements. You should bring this list with you each time you visit a doctor or if you are admitted to a hospital. It is also important information to carry with you in case of emergencies. Brand names Acuprin ® Anacin ® Aspirin Regimen Ascriptin ® Aspergum ® Aspidrox ® Aspir-Mox ® Aspirtab ® Aspir-trin ® Bayer ® Aspirin Bufferin ® Buffex ® Easprin ® Ecotrin ® Empirin ® Entaprin ® Entercote ® Fasprin ® Genacote ® Gennin-FC ® Genprin ® Halfprin ® Magnaprin ® Miniprin ® Minitabs ® Ridiprin ® Sloprin ® Uni-Buff ® Uni-Tren ® Valomag ® Zorprin ®







[ Mometasone Oral Inhalation pronounced as (moe met' a sone) To use the sharing features on this page, please enable JavaScript. Why is this medication prescribed? How should this medicine be used? Other uses for this medicine What special precautions should I follow? What special dietary instructions should I follow? What should I do if I forget a dose? What side effects can this medication cause? What should I know about storage and disposal of this medication? What other information should I know? Brand names Why is this medication prescribed? Mometasone oral inhalation is used to prevent difficulty breathing, chest tightness, wheezing, and coughing caused by asthma. Mometasone oral inhalation (Asmanex ® HFA) is used in adults and children 12 years of age and older. Mometasone powder for oral inhalation (Asmanex ® Twisthaler) is used in adults and children 4 years of age and older. It is in a class of medications called corticosteroids. Mometasone works by decreasing swelling and irritation in the airways to allow for easier breathing. How should this medicine be used? Mometasone inhalation comes as a powder to inhale by mouth and as an aerosol to inhale by mouth using an inhaler. Mometasone oral inhalation is usually inhaled twice daily. Mometasone powder for oral inhalation is usually inhaled once a day in the evening or twice daily. Use mometasone inhalation at around the same time(s) every day. Follow the directions on your prescription label carefully, and ask your doctor or pharmacist to explain any part you do not understand. Use mometasone inhalation exactly as directed. Do not inhale more or less of it or inhale it more often than prescribed by your doctor. Talk to your doctor about how you should use your other oral and inhaled medications for asthma during your treatment with mometasone inhalation. If you were taking an oral steroid such as dexamethasone, methylprednisolone (Medrol), or prednisone (Rayos), your doctor may want to gradually decrease your steroid dose starting at least 1 week after you begin to use mometasone inhalation. Mometasone inhalation helps to prevent asthma attacks but will not stop an asthma attack that has already started. Do not use mometasone inhalation during an asthma attack. Your doctor will prescribe a short-acting inhaler to use during asthma attacks. Your doctor will probably start you on an average dose of mometasone inhalation. Your doctor may decrease your dose if your symptoms are controlled or gradually increase your dose if your symptoms have not improved after 2 weeks. Mometasone inhalation controls asthma but does not cure it. It may take 1 to 2 weeks or longer before you feel the full benefit of the medication. Continue to use mometasone inhalation even if you feel well. Do not stop using mometasone inhalation without talking to your doctor. Tell your doctor if your asthma worsens during your treatment. Call your doctor immediately if you have an asthma attack that does not stop when you use your fast-acting asthma medication, or if you need to use more of your fast-acting medication than usual. Before you use your mometasone oral inhaler the first time, read the written instructions that come with it. Look at the diagrams carefully and be sure that you recognize all the parts of the inhaler. Ask your doctor, pharmacist, or respiratory therapist to show you how to use it. Practice using the inhaler while he or she watches. The dose counter on the base of your mometasone inhaler tells you how many doses of medication are left in your inhaler. Read the numbers on the dose counter from top to bottom. The number on the dose counter decreases every time you lift the cap to load a dose of medication. Do not use the inhaler if the numbers on the dose counter do not change after you load a dose. Call your pharmacist if your inhaler is not working properly. To use the aerosol inhaler, follow these steps: Remove the cap from the mouthpiece. If you are using the inhaler for the first time or if you have not used the inhaler in more than 5 days, prime it by releasing 4 test sprays into the air, away from your face. Be careful not to spray the medication into your eyes or face. Shake the inhaler prior to each inhalation. Breathe out through your mouth. Hold the inhaler facing you with the mouthpiece on the bottom. Place your thumb under the mouthpiece and your index finger on the center of the dose indicator at the top of the canister. Place the mouthpiece in your mouth and close your lips around it. Breathe in deeply and slowly through your mouth. At the same time, press down firmly on the center of the dose indicator at the top of the canister with your index finger. Remove your index finger as soon as the spray is released. When you have breathed in fully, remove the inhaler from your mouth and close your mouth. Try to hold your breath for about 30 seconds, then breathe out gently. If your doctor has told you to take more than one puffs per treatment, repeat steps 3 through 7. Put the cap back on the mouthpiece. Rinse your mouth with water and spit the water out. Do not swallow the water. Clean your aerosol inhaler once a week. To clean your inhaler, use a clean, dry tissue or cloth. Do not wash or put any part of your inhaler in water. To use the powder using the inhaler, follow these steps: If you are using a new inhaler for the first time, remove it from the foil pouch. Write the date that you opened the inhaler in the space provided on the cap label. Hold the inhaler straight up with the colored base on the bottom. Twist the white cap counterclockwise and remove it. This loads the correct amount of medication in the base of the inhaler, so it is important to twist the cap and not twist the base with your hand. As you lift the cap off, the dose counter on the base will count down by one to show the number of doses left after this use. Breathe out fully. Hold the inhaler on its side with the mouthpiece facing you. Be sure that you are not covering the ventilation holes on the sides of the inhaler. Place the mouthpiece of the inhaler in your mouth and close your lips firmly around it. Breathe in a fast, deep breath. You will receive your medication as a very fine powder, so you may not be able to smell, feel, or taste it as you inhale. Remove the inhaler from your mouth and hold your breath for 10 seconds or as long as you comfortably can. Do not breathe out into the inhaler. Wipe the mouthpiece dry. Put the cap back onto the inhaler so that the indented arrow is in line with the dose counter. Gently press down and turn clockwise until you hear a click. Rinse your mouth with water and spit. Do not swallow the water. If your inhaler needs to be cleaned, gently wipe it with a dry cloth. Do not wash the inhaler. Keep the inhaler away from water or other liquids. Ask your pharmacist or doctor for a copy of the manufacturer's information for the patient. Other uses for this medicine This medication may be prescribed for other uses; ask your doctor or pharmacist for more information. What special precautions should I follow? Before using mometasone oral inhalation, tell your doctor and pharmacist if you are allergic to mometasone, any other medications, or any of the ingredients in mometasone inhalation powder or aerosol inhaler. If you will be using the inhalation powder, also tell your doctor if you are allergic to lactose or milk proteins. Ask your pharmacist for a list of the ingredients. tell your doctor and pharmacist what prescription and nonprescription medications, vitamins, nutritional supplements, and herbal products you are taking or have recently taken. Be sure to mention any of the following: antifungals such as itraconazole (Onmel, Sporanox) and ketoconazole ; clarithromycin (Biaxin, in Prevpac); cobicistat (Tybost, in Evotaz, in Genvoya, others); HIV protease inhibitors such as atazanavir (Reyataz, in Evotaz), indinavir (Crixivan), nelfinavir (Viracept), ritonavir (Norvir, in Kaletra, in Viekira Pak, others), and saquinavir (Invirase); medications for seizures, nefazodone; oral steroids such as dexamethasone, methylprednisolone (Medrol), and prednisone (Rayos); and telithromycin (Ketek). Your doctor may need to change the doses of your medications or monitor you carefully for side effects. Many other medications may also interact with mometasone oral inhalation, so be sure to tell your doctor about all the medications you are taking, even those that do not appear on this list. do not use mometasone during an asthma attack. Your doctor will prescribe a short-acting inhaler to use during asthma attacks. Call your doctor if you have an asthma attack that does not stop when using the fast-acting asthma medication, or if you need to use more of the fast-acting medication than usual. tell your doctor if you or anyone in your family has or has ever had osteoporosis (a condition in which the bones become thin and weak and break easily) and if you have or have ever had tuberculosis (TB; a type of lung infection) in your lungs, cataracts (clouding of the lens of the eye), glaucoma (an eye disease) or high pressure in the eye, or liver disease. Also tell your doctor if you have any type of untreated infection anywhere in your body or a herpes eye infection (a type of infection that causes a sore on the eyelid or eye surface), or if you are on bedrest or unable to move around. tell your doctor if you are pregnant, plan to become pregnant, or are breastfeeding. If you become pregnant while using mometasone inhalation, call your doctor. if you are having surgery, including dental surgery, tell the doctor or dentist that you are using mometasone inhalation. if you have any other medical conditions, such as asthma, arthritis, or eczema (a skin disease), they may worsen when your oral steroid dose is decreased. Tell your doctor if this happens or if you experience any of the following symptoms during this time: extreme tiredness, muscle weakness or pain; sudden pain in stomach, lower body or legs; loss of appetite; weight loss; upset stomach; vomiting; diarrhea; dizziness; fainting; depression; irritability; and darkening of skin. Your body may be less able to cope with stress such as surgery, illness, severe asthma attack, or injury during this time. Call your doctor right away if you get sick and be sure that all healthcare providers who treat you know that you recently replaced your oral steroid with mometasone inhalation. Carry a card or wear a medical identification bracelet to let emergency personnel know that you may need to be treated with steroids in an emergency. tell your doctor if you have never had chickenpox or measles and you have not been vaccinated against these infections. Stay away from people who are sick, especially people who have chickenpox or measles. If you are exposed to one of these infections or if you develop symptoms of one of these infections, call your doctor right away. You may need treatment to protect you from these infections. you should know that mometasone inhalation sometimes causes wheezing and difficulty breathing immediately after it is inhaled. If this happens, use your fast-acting (rescue) asthma medication right away and call your doctor. Do not use mometasone inhalation again unless your doctor tells you that you should. What special dietary instructions should I follow? Unless your doctor tells you otherwise, continue your normal diet. What should I do if I forget a dose? Skip the missed dose and continue your regular dosing schedule. Do not inhale a double dose to make up for a missed one. What side effects can this medication cause? Mometasone inhalation may cause side effects. Tell your doctor if any of these symptoms are severe or do not go away: headache stuffy or runny nose swelling of nose, throat, and sinuses bone, muscle, joint, or back pain flu-like symptoms nose irritation or nosebleed dry throat painful white patches in the mouth or throat painful menstrual periods Some side effects can be serious. If you experience any of the following symptoms or those in the SPECIAL PRECAUTIONS section, call your doctor immediately or get emergency medical treatment: hives rash itching swelling of the eyes, face, tongue, throat, arms, hands, feet, ankles, or lower legs hoarseness difficulty breathing or swallowing throat tightness vision changes Mometasone inhalation may cause slowed growth in children. Your child's doctor will monitor your child's growth carefully while he or she is using mometasone inhalation. Talk to your doctor about the risks of giving this medication to your child. People who use mometasone for a long time may develop glaucoma or cataracts. Talk to your doctor about the risks of using mometasone and how often you should have your eyes examined during your treatment. Mometasone inhalation may cause a decrease in your bone mineral density (bone strength and thickness) and may increase your risk of developing osteoporosis. Talk to your doctor about the risks of using mometasone inhalation. Mometasone inhalation may cause other side effects. Call your doctor if you have any unusual problems while using this medication. If you experience a serious side effect, you or your doctor may send a report to the Food and Drug Administration's (FDA) MedWatch Adverse Event Reporting program online ( http://www.fda.gov/Safety/MedWatch ) or by phone (1-800-332-1088). What should I know about storage and disposal of this medication? Store your mometasone inhaler out of reach of children, at room temperature, and away from excess heat and moisture (not in the bathroom). Do not store the inhaler near a heat source or an open flame. Protect the inhaler from freezing and direct sunlight. Do not puncture the aerosol container and do not throw it away in an incinerator or fire. Dispose of your mometasone oral inhalation powder inhaler 45 days after you open the package and any medication that is outdated or no longer needed. It is important to keep all medication out of sight and reach of children as many containers (such as weekly pill minders and those for eye drops, creams, patches, and inhalers) are not child-resistant and young children can open them easily. To protect young children from poisoning, always lock safety caps and immediately place the medication in a safe location – one that is up and away and out of their sight and reach. http://www.upandaway.org Unneeded medications should be disposed of in special ways to ensure that pets, children, and other people cannot consume them. However, you should not flush this medication down the toilet. Instead, the best way to dispose of your medication is through a medicine take-back program. Talk to your pharmacist or contact your local garbage/recycling department to learn about take-back programs in your community. See the FDA's Safe Disposal of Medicines website ( http://goo.gl/c4Rm4p ) for more information if you do not have access to a take-back program. What other information should I know? Keep all appointments with your doctor. Do not let anyone else use your medication. Ask your pharmacist any questions you have about refilling your prescription. It is important for you to keep a written list of all of the prescription and nonprescription (over-the-counter) medicines you are taking, as well as any products such as vitamins, minerals, or other dietary supplements. You should bring this list with you each time you visit a doctor or if you are admitted to a hospital. It is also important information to carry with you in case of emergencies. Brand names Asmanex ® HFA Asmanex ® Twisthaler

[ Mometasone Oral Inhalation pronounced as (moe met' a sone) To use the sharing features on this page, please enable JavaScript. Why is this medication prescribed? How should this medicine be used? Other uses for this medicine What special precautions should I follow? What special dietary instructions should I follow? What should I do if I forget a dose? What side effects can this medication cause? What should I know about storage and disposal of this medication? What other information should I know? Brand names Why is this medication prescribed? Mometasone oral inhalation is used to prevent difficulty breathing, chest tightness, wheezing, and coughing caused by asthma. Mometasone oral inhalation (Asmanex ® HFA) is used in adults and children 12 years of age and older. Mometasone powder for oral inhalation (Asmanex ® Twisthaler) is used in adults and children 4 years of age and older. It is in a class of medications called corticosteroids. Mometasone works by decreasing swelling and irritation in the airways to allow for easier breathing. How should this medicine be used? Mometasone inhalation comes as a powder to inhale by mouth and as an aerosol to inhale by mouth using an inhaler. Mometasone oral inhalation is usually inhaled twice daily. Mometasone powder for oral inhalation is usually inhaled once a day in the evening or twice daily. Use mometasone inhalation at around the same time(s) every day. Follow the directions on your prescription label carefully, and ask your doctor or pharmacist to explain any part you do not understand. Use mometasone inhalation exactly as directed. Do not inhale more or less of it or inhale it more often than prescribed by your doctor. Talk to your doctor about how you should use your other oral and inhaled medications for asthma during your treatment with mometasone inhalation. If you were taking an oral steroid such as dexamethasone, methylprednisolone (Medrol), or prednisone (Rayos), your doctor may want to gradually decrease your steroid dose starting at least 1 week after you begin to use mometasone inhalation. Mometasone inhalation helps to prevent asthma attacks but will not stop an asthma attack that has already started. Do not use mometasone inhalation during an asthma attack. Your doctor will prescribe a short-acting inhaler to use during asthma attacks. Your doctor will probably start you on an average dose of mometasone inhalation. Your doctor may decrease your dose if your symptoms are controlled or gradually increase your dose if your symptoms have not improved after 2 weeks. Mometasone inhalation controls asthma but does not cure it. It may take 1 to 2 weeks or longer before you feel the full benefit of the medication. Continue to use mometasone inhalation even if you feel well. Do not stop using mometasone inhalation without talking to your doctor. Tell your doctor if your asthma worsens during your treatment. Call your doctor immediately if you have an asthma attack that does not stop when you use your fast-acting asthma medication, or if you need to use more of your fast-acting medication than usual. Before you use your mometasone oral inhaler the first time, read the written instructions that come with it. Look at the diagrams carefully and be sure that you recognize all the parts of the inhaler. Ask your doctor, pharmacist, or respiratory therapist to show you how to use it. Practice using the inhaler while he or she watches. The dose counter on the base of your mometasone inhaler tells you how many doses of medication are left in your inhaler. Read the numbers on the dose counter from top to bottom. The number on the dose counter decreases every time you lift the cap to load a dose of medication. Do not use the inhaler if the numbers on the dose counter do not change after you load a dose. Call your pharmacist if your inhaler is not working properly. To use the aerosol inhaler, follow these steps: Remove the cap from the mouthpiece. If you are using the inhaler for the first time or if you have not used the inhaler in more than 5 days, prime it by releasing 4 test sprays into the air, away from your face. Be careful not to spray the medication into your eyes or face. Shake the inhaler prior to each inhalation. Breathe out through your mouth. Hold the inhaler facing you with the mouthpiece on the bottom. Place your thumb under the mouthpiece and your index finger on the center of the dose indicator at the top of the canister. Place the mouthpiece in your mouth and close your lips around it. Breathe in deeply and slowly through your mouth. At the same time, press down firmly on the center of the dose indicator at the top of the canister with your index finger. Remove your index finger as soon as the spray is released. When you have breathed in fully, remove the inhaler from your mouth and close your mouth. Try to hold your breath for about 30 seconds, then breathe out gently. If your doctor has told you to take more than one puffs per treatment, repeat steps 3 through 7. Put the cap back on the mouthpiece. Rinse your mouth with water and spit the water out. Do not swallow the water. Clean your aerosol inhaler once a week. To clean your inhaler, use a clean, dry tissue or cloth. Do not wash or put any part of your inhaler in water. To use the powder using the inhaler, follow these steps: If you are using a new inhaler for the first time, remove it from the foil pouch. Write the date that you opened the inhaler in the space provided on the cap label. Hold the inhaler straight up with the colored base on the bottom. Twist the white cap counterclockwise and remove it. This loads the correct amount of medication in the base of the inhaler, so it is important to twist the cap and not twist the base with your hand. As you lift the cap off, the dose counter on the base will count down by one to show the number of doses left after this use. Breathe out fully. Hold the inhaler on its side with the mouthpiece facing you. Be sure that you are not covering the ventilation holes on the sides of the inhaler. Place the mouthpiece of the inhaler in your mouth and close your lips firmly around it. Breathe in a fast, deep breath. You will receive your medication as a very fine powder, so you may not be able to smell, feel, or taste it as you inhale. Remove the inhaler from your mouth and hold your breath for 10 seconds or as long as you comfortably can. Do not breathe out into the inhaler. Wipe the mouthpiece dry. Put the cap back onto the inhaler so that the indented arrow is in line with the dose counter. Gently press down and turn clockwise until you hear a click. Rinse your mouth with water and spit. Do not swallow the water. If your inhaler needs to be cleaned, gently wipe it with a dry cloth. Do not wash the inhaler. Keep the inhaler away from water or other liquids. Ask your pharmacist or doctor for a copy of the manufacturer's information for the patient. Other uses for this medicine This medication may be prescribed for other uses; ask your doctor or pharmacist for more information. What special precautions should I follow? Before using mometasone oral inhalation, tell your doctor and pharmacist if you are allergic to mometasone, any other medications, or any of the ingredients in mometasone inhalation powder or aerosol inhaler. If you will be using the inhalation powder, also tell your doctor if you are allergic to lactose or milk proteins. Ask your pharmacist for a list of the ingredients. tell your doctor and pharmacist what prescription and nonprescription medications, vitamins, nutritional supplements, and herbal products you are taking or have recently taken. Be sure to mention any of the following: antifungals such as itraconazole (Onmel, Sporanox) and ketoconazole ; clarithromycin (Biaxin, in Prevpac); cobicistat (Tybost, in Evotaz, in Genvoya, others); HIV protease inhibitors such as atazanavir (Reyataz, in Evotaz), indinavir (Crixivan), nelfinavir (Viracept), ritonavir (Norvir, in Kaletra, in Viekira Pak, others), and saquinavir (Invirase); medications for seizures, nefazodone; oral steroids such as dexamethasone, methylprednisolone (Medrol), and prednisone (Rayos); and telithromycin (Ketek). Your doctor may need to change the doses of your medications or monitor you carefully for side effects. Many other medications may also interact with mometasone oral inhalation, so be sure to tell your doctor about all the medications you are taking, even those that do not appear on this list. do not use mometasone during an asthma attack. Your doctor will prescribe a short-acting inhaler to use during asthma attacks. Call your doctor if you have an asthma attack that does not stop when using the fast-acting asthma medication, or if you need to use more of the fast-acting medication than usual. tell your doctor if you or anyone in your family has or has ever had osteoporosis (a condition in which the bones become thin and weak and break easily) and if you have or have ever had tuberculosis (TB; a type of lung infection) in your lungs, cataracts (clouding of the lens of the eye), glaucoma (an eye disease) or high pressure in the eye, or liver disease. Also tell your doctor if you have any type of untreated infection anywhere in your body or a herpes eye infection (a type of infection that causes a sore on the eyelid or eye surface), or if you are on bedrest or unable to move around. tell your doctor if you are pregnant, plan to become pregnant, or are breastfeeding. If you become pregnant while using mometasone inhalation, call your doctor. if you are having surgery, including dental surgery, tell the doctor or dentist that you are using mometasone inhalation. if you have any other medical conditions, such as asthma, arthritis, or eczema (a skin disease), they may worsen when your oral steroid dose is decreased. Tell your doctor if this happens or if you experience any of the following symptoms during this time: extreme tiredness, muscle weakness or pain; sudden pain in stomach, lower body or legs; loss of appetite; weight loss; upset stomach; vomiting; diarrhea; dizziness; fainting; depression; irritability; and darkening of skin. Your body may be less able to cope with stress such as surgery, illness, severe asthma attack, or injury during this time. Call your doctor right away if you get sick and be sure that all healthcare providers who treat you know that you recently replaced your oral steroid with mometasone inhalation. Carry a card or wear a medical identification bracelet to let emergency personnel know that you may need to be treated with steroids in an emergency. tell your doctor if you have never had chickenpox or measles and you have not been vaccinated against these infections. Stay away from people who are sick, especially people who have chickenpox or measles. If you are exposed to one of these infections or if you develop symptoms of one of these infections, call your doctor right away. You may need treatment to protect you from these infections. you should know that mometasone inhalation sometimes causes wheezing and difficulty breathing immediately after it is inhaled. If this happens, use your fast-acting (rescue) asthma medication right away and call your doctor. Do not use mometasone inhalation again unless your doctor tells you that you should. What special dietary instructions should I follow? Unless your doctor tells you otherwise, continue your normal diet. What should I do if I forget a dose? Skip the missed dose and continue your regular dosing schedule. Do not inhale a double dose to make up for a missed one. What side effects can this medication cause? Mometasone inhalation may cause side effects. Tell your doctor if any of these symptoms are severe or do not go away: headache stuffy or runny nose swelling of nose, throat, and sinuses bone, muscle, joint, or back pain flu-like symptoms nose irritation or nosebleed dry throat painful white patches in the mouth or throat painful menstrual periods Some side effects can be serious. If you experience any of the following symptoms or those in the SPECIAL PRECAUTIONS section, call your doctor immediately or get emergency medical treatment: hives rash itching swelling of the eyes, face, tongue, throat, arms, hands, feet, ankles, or lower legs hoarseness difficulty breathing or swallowing throat tightness vision changes Mometasone inhalation may cause slowed growth in children. Your child's doctor will monitor your child's growth carefully while he or she is using mometasone inhalation. Talk to your doctor about the risks of giving this medication to your child. People who use mometasone for a long time may develop glaucoma or cataracts. Talk to your doctor about the risks of using mometasone and how often you should have your eyes examined during your treatment. Mometasone inhalation may cause a decrease in your bone mineral density (bone strength and thickness) and may increase your risk of developing osteoporosis. Talk to your doctor about the risks of using mometasone inhalation. Mometasone inhalation may cause other side effects. Call your doctor if you have any unusual problems while using this medication. If you experience a serious side effect, you or your doctor may send a report to the Food and Drug Administration's (FDA) MedWatch Adverse Event Reporting program online ( http://www.fda.gov/Safety/MedWatch ) or by phone (1-800-332-1088). What should I know about storage and disposal of this medication? Store your mometasone inhaler out of reach of children, at room temperature, and away from excess heat and moisture (not in the bathroom). Do not store the inhaler near a heat source or an open flame. Protect the inhaler from freezing and direct sunlight. Do not puncture the aerosol container and do not throw it away in an incinerator or fire. Dispose of your mometasone oral inhalation powder inhaler 45 days after you open the package and any medication that is outdated or no longer needed. It is important to keep all medication out of sight and reach of children as many containers (such as weekly pill minders and those for eye drops, creams, patches, and inhalers) are not child-resistant and young children can open them easily. To protect young children from poisoning, always lock safety caps and immediately place the medication in a safe location – one that is up and away and out of their sight and reach. http://www.upandaway.org Unneeded medications should be disposed of in special ways to ensure that pets, children, and other people cannot consume them. However, you should not flush this medication down the toilet. Instead, the best way to dispose of your medication is through a medicine take-back program. Talk to your pharmacist or contact your local garbage/recycling department to learn about take-back programs in your community. See the FDA's Safe Disposal of Medicines website ( http://goo.gl/c4Rm4p ) for more information if you do not have access to a take-back program. What other information should I know? Keep all appointments with your doctor. Do not let anyone else use your medication. Ask your pharmacist any questions you have about refilling your prescription. It is important for you to keep a written list of all of the prescription and nonprescription (over-the-counter) medicines you are taking, as well as any products such as vitamins, minerals, or other dietary supplements. You should bring this list with you each time you visit a doctor or if you are admitted to a hospital. It is also important information to carry with you in case of emergencies. Brand names Asmanex ® HFA Asmanex ® Twisthaler











[ Capsaicin Transdermal Patch pronounced as (kap say' i sin)  Nonprescription (over-the-counter) capsaicin patches (Aspercreme Warming, Salonpas Pain Relieving Hot, others) are used to relieve minor pain in muscles and joints caused by arthritis, backaches, muscle strains, bruises, cramps, and sprains. Prescription capsaicin patches (Qutenza) are used to relieve the pain of postherpetic neuralgia (PHN; the burning, stabbing pain or aches that may last for months or years after an attack of shingles). Prescription capsaicin patches (Qutenza) are also used to relieve the pain of diabetic neuropathy (numbness or tingling due to nerve damage in people who have diabetes). Capsaicin is a substance that is found in chili peppers. It works by affecting nerve cells in the skin that are associated with pain, which results in decreased activity of these nerve cells and a reduced sense of pain. How should this medicine be used? Prescription transdermal capsaicin comes as an 8% patch (Qutenza) to be applied to the skin. Your doctor will choose the best place to apply the patch(es) in order to treat your condition and will mark the area where the patch should be placed. If transdermal capsaicin (Qutenza) is used to relieve the pain of postherpetic neuralgia, up to 4 patches are usually applied for 60 minutes once every 3 months. If transdermal capsaicin (Qutenza) is used to relieve the pain of diabetic neuropathy, up to 4 patches are usually applied for 30 minutes once every 3 months. Nonprescription (over the counter) transdermal capsaicin comes as a 0.025% patch (Aspercreme Warming, Salonpas Pain Relieving Hot, others) to apply up to 3 or 4 times daily and for no more than 8 hours per application. Use nonprescription capsaicin patches exactly as directed. Do not use more or less of it or use it more often or for a longer period of time than directed by the package instructions. Your doctor may apply an anesthetic to numb your skin before applying prescription transdermal capsaicin (Qutenza). Tell your doctor if you experience pain at the application site. Your doctor may use a cold pack or give you another medication for pain. Apply nonprescription (over the counter) capsaicin patches to a clean, dry, hairless area of skin as directed by the package directions. Do not apply capsaicin patches to skin that is broken, damaged, cut, infected, or covered by a rash. Do not wrap or bandage the treated area. Wash your hands with soap and water to remove any medicine that may have gotten on them. Do not touch your eyes until you have washed your hands. Do not let the nonprescription (over the counter) patches come in contact with your eyes, nose, or mouth. If the patch does touch your eye or if irritation of your eyes, nose, or mouth occurs, wash the affected area immediately with water. Call a doctor if eye, skin, nose, or throat irritation. While you are wearing a capsaicin patch and for a few days after treatment with prescription transdermal capsaicin, protect treated area from direct heat such as heating pads, electric blankets, hair dryers, heat lamps, saunas, and hot tubs. In addition, vigorous exercise should be avoided for a few days following treatment with prescription transdermal capsaicin. You should not shower or take a bath while you are wearing a nonprescription (over the counter) capsaicin patch. You should remove the patch at least 1 hour before showering or taking a bath; do not apply capsaicin patches immediately after showering or taking a bath. Stop using nonprescription capsaicin patches and call your doctor if severe burning occurs or if your pain worsens, improves and then worsens, or lasts longer than 7 days. Ask your pharmacist or doctor for a copy of the manufacturer's information for the patient. Other uses for this medicine This medication may be prescribed for other uses; ask your doctor or pharmacist for more information. What special precautions should I follow? Before using capsaicin patches, tell your doctor and pharmacist if you are allergic to capsaicin, any other medications, chili peppers, or any of the other ingredients in capsaicin patches. Ask your pharmacist for a list of the ingredients. tell your doctor and pharmacist what other prescription and nonprescription medications, vitamins, nutritional supplements, and herbal products you are taking or plan to take. Be sure to mention any of the following: opioid (narcotic) pain medications such as codeine (found in many cough and pain medications), morphine (Kadian), hydrocodone (Hyslingla, Zohydro, in Apadaz, others), and oxycodone (Oxycontin, Xtampza, in Percocet, others) or other topical medications for pain. tell your doctor if you have or have ever had high blood pressure, stroke or mini-stroke, heart problems, or trouble feeling or sensing touch on the skin. tell your doctor if you are pregnant, plan to become pregnant, or are breast-feeding. If you become pregnant while using capsaicin patches, call your doctor. plan to avoid unnecessary or prolonged exposure to sunlight and to wear protective clothing and sunscreen. Capsaicin patches may make your skin sensitive to sunlight. What special dietary instructions should I follow? Unless your doctor tells you otherwise, continue your normal diet. What should I do if I forget a dose? Apply a new patch as soon as you remember it. However, if it is almost time for the next scheduled application, skip the missed dose and continue your regular schedule. Do not apply an extra capsaicin patch to make up for a missed dose. What side effects can this medication cause? Transdermal capsaicin may cause side effects. Tell your doctor if any of these symptoms are severe or do not go away: burning sensation at the place where the patch was applied redness, itching, or small bumps at the place where the patch was applied nausea Some side effects can be serious. If you experience any of these symptoms, call your doctor immediately: pain, swelling, or blistering at the place where the patch was applied cough eye irritation or pain throat irritation Transdermal capsaicin may cause other side effects. Call your doctor if you have any unusual problems while taking this medication. If you experience a serious side effect, you or your doctor may send a report to the Food and Drug Administration's (FDA) MedWatch Adverse Event Reporting program online ( http://www.fda.gov/Safety/MedWatch ) or by phone (1-800-332-1088). What should I know about storage and disposal of this medication? Keep this medication in the container it came in, tightly closed, and out of reach of children and pets. Store it at room temperature. It is important to keep all medication out of sight and reach of children as many containers (such as weekly pill minders and those for eye drops, creams, patches, and inhalers) are not child-resistant and young children can open them easily. To protect young children from poisoning, always lock safety caps and immediately place the medication in a safe location – one that is up and away and out of their sight and reach. http://www.upandaway.org Unneeded medications should be disposed of in special ways to ensure that pets, children, and other people cannot consume them. However, you should not flush this medication down the toilet. Instead, the best way to dispose of your medication is through a medicine take-back program. Talk to your pharmacist or contact your local garbage/recycling department to learn about take-back programs in your community. See the FDA's Safe Disposal of Medicines website ( http://goo.gl/c4Rm4p ) for more information if you do not have access to a take-back program. In case of emergency/overdose In case of overdose, call the poison control helpline at 1-800-222-1222. Information is also available online at https://www.poisonhelp.org/help . If the victim has collapsed, had a seizure, has trouble breathing, or can't be awakened, immediately call emergency services at 911. What other information should I know? Do not let anyone else use your medication. Ask your pharmacist any questions you have about refilling your prescription. It is important for you to keep a written list of all of the prescription and nonprescription (over-the-counter) medicines you are taking, as well as any products such as vitamins, minerals, or other dietary supplements. You should bring this list with you each time you visit a doctor or if you are admitted to a hospital. It is also important information to carry with you in case of emergencies. Brand names Aspercreme Warming ® Patch Coralite ® Medicated Heat Patch Medirelief Hot ® Patch Qutenza ® Patch Salonpas Pain Relieving Hot ® Patch Satogesic Hot ® Patch Solistice Hot ® Patch

[ Aspirin pronounced as (as' pir in) To use the sharing features on this page, please enable JavaScript. Why is this medication prescribed? How should this medicine be used? Other uses for this medicine What special precautions should I follow? What special dietary instructions should I follow? What should I do if I forget a dose? What side effects can this medication cause? What should I know about storage and disposal of this medication? In case of emergency/overdose What other information should I know? Brand names Other names Why is this medication prescribed? Prescription aspirin is used to relieve the symptoms of rheumatoid arthritis (arthritis caused by swelling of the lining of the joints), osteoarthritis (arthritis caused by breakdown of the lining of the joints), systemic lupus erythematosus (condition in which the immune system attacks the joints and organs and causes pain and swelling) and certain other rheumatologic conditions (conditions in which the immune system attacks parts of the body). Nonprescription aspirin is used to reduce fever and to relieve mild to moderate pain from headaches, menstrual periods, arthritis, toothaches, and muscle aches. Nonprescription aspirin is also used to prevent heart attacks in people who have had a heart attack in the past or who have angina (chest pain that occurs when the heart does not get enough oxygen). Nonprescription aspirin is also used to reduce the risk of death in people who are experiencing or who have recently experienced a heart attack. Nonprescription aspirin is also used to prevent ischemic strokes (strokes that occur when a blood clot blocks the flow of blood to the brain) or mini-strokes (strokes that occur when the flow of blood to the brain is blocked for a short time) in people who have had this type of stroke or mini-stroke in the past. Aspirin will not prevent hemorrhagic strokes (strokes caused by bleeding in the brain). Aspirin is in a group of medications called salicylates. It works by stopping the production of certain natural substances that cause fever, pain, swelling, and blood clots. Aspirin is also available in combination with other medications such as antacids, pain relievers, and cough and cold medications. This monograph only includes information about the use of aspirin alone. If you are taking a combination product, read the information on the package or prescription label or ask your doctor or pharmacist for more information. How should this medicine be used? Prescription aspirin comes as an extended-release (long-acting) tablet. Nonprescription aspirin comes as a regular tablet, a delayed-release (releases the medication in the intestine to prevent damage to the stomach) tablet, a chewable tablet, powder, and a gum to take by mouth. Prescription aspirin is usually taken two or more times a day. Nonprescription aspirin is usually taken once a day to lower the risk of a heart attack or stroke. Nonprescription aspirin is usually taken every 4 to 6 hours as needed to treat fever or pain. Follow the directions on the package or prescription label carefully, and ask your doctor or pharmacist to explain any part you do not understand. Take aspirin exactly as directed. Do not take more or less of it or take it more often than directed by the package label or prescribed by your doctor. Swallow the extended-release tablets whole with a full glass of water. Do not break, crush, or chew them. Swallow the delayed-release tablets with a full glass of water. Chewable aspirin tablets may be chewed, crushed, or swallowed whole. Drink a full glass of water, immediately after taking these tablets. Ask a doctor before you give aspirin to your child or teenager. Aspirin may cause Reye's syndrome (a serious condition in which fat builds up on the brain, liver, and other body organs) in children and teenagers, especially if they have a virus such as chicken pox or the flu. If you have had oral surgery or surgery to remove your tonsils in the last 7 days, talk to your doctor about which types of aspirin are safe for you. Delayed-release tablets begin to work some time after they are taken. Do not take delayed-release tablets for fever or pain that must be relieved quickly. Stop taking aspirin and call your doctor if your fever lasts longer than 3 days, if your pain lasts longer than 10 days, or if the part of your body that was painful becomes red or swollen. You may have a condition that must be treated by a doctor. Other uses for this medicine Aspirin is also sometimes used to treat rheumatic fever (a serious condition that may develop after a strep throat infection and may cause swelling of the heart valves) and Kawasaki disease (an illness that may cause heart problems in children). Aspirin is also sometimes used to lower the risk of blood clots in patients who have artificial heart valves or certain other heart conditions and to prevent certain complications of pregnancy. What special precautions should I follow? Before taking aspirin, tell your doctor and pharmacist if you are allergic to aspirin, other medications for pain or fever, tartrazine dye, or any other medications. tell your doctor and pharmacist what prescription and nonprescription medications, vitamins, nutritional supplements, and herbal products you are taking or plan to take. Be sure to mention any of the following: acetazolamide (Diamox); angiotensin-converting enzyme (ACE) inhibitors such as benazepril (Lotensin), captopril (Capoten), enalapril (Vasotec), fosinopril (Monopril), lisinopril (Prinivil, Zestril), moexipril (Univasc), perindopril, (Aceon), quinapril (Accupril), ramipril (Altace), and trandolapril (Mavik); anticoagulants ('blood thinners') such as warfarin (Coumadin) and heparin; beta blockers such as atenolol (Tenormin), labetalol (Normodyne), metoprolol (Lopressor, Toprol XL), nadolol (Corgard), and propranolol (Inderal); diuretics ('water pills'); medications for diabetes or arthritis; medications for gout such as probenecid and sulfinpyrazone (Anturane); methotrexate (Trexall); other nonsteroidal anti-inflammatory drugs (NSAIDs) such as naproxen (Aleve, Naprosyn); phenytoin (Dilantin); and valproic acid (Depakene, Depakote). Your doctor may need to change the doses of your medications or monitor you more carefully for side effects. if you are taking aspirin on a regular basis to prevent heart attack or stroke, do not take ibuprofen (Advil, Motrin) to treat pain or fever without talking to your doctor. Your doctor will probably tell you to allow some time to pass between taking your daily dose of aspirin and taking a dose of ibuprofen. tell your doctor if you have or have ever had asthma, frequent stuffed or runny nose, or nasal polyps (growths on the linings of the nose). If you have these conditions, there is a risk that you will have an allergic reaction to aspirin. Your doctor may tell you that you should not take aspirin. tell your doctor if you often have heartburn, upset stomach, or stomach pain and if you have or have ever had ulcers, anemia, bleeding problems such as hemophilia, or kidney or liver disease. tell your doctor if you are pregnant, you plan to become pregnant, or if you are breast-feeding. Low dose aspirin 81-mg may be taken during pregnancy, but aspirin doses greater that 81 mg may harm the fetus and cause problems with delivery if it is taken around 20 weeks or later during pregnancy. Do not take aspirin doses greater that 81 mg (e.g., 325 mg) around or after 20 weeks of pregnancy, unless told to do so by your doctor. If you become pregnant while taking aspirin or aspirin containing medications, call your doctor. if you are having surgery, including dental surgery, tell the doctor or dentist that you are taking aspirin. if you drink three or more alcoholic drinks every day, ask your doctor if you should take aspirin or other medications for pain and fever. What special dietary instructions should I follow? Unless your doctor tells you otherwise, continue your normal diet. What should I do if I forget a dose? If your doctor has told you to take aspirin on a regular basis and you miss a dose, take the missed dose as soon as you remember it. However, if it is almost time for the next dose, skip the missed dose and continue your regular dosing schedule. Do not take a double dose to make up for a missed one. What side effects can this medication cause? Aspirin may cause side effects. Tell your doctor if any of these symptoms are severe or do not go away: nausea vomiting stomach pain heartburn Some side effects can be serious. If you experience any of the following symptoms, call your doctor immediately: hives rash swelling of the eyes, face, lips, tongue, or throat wheezing or difficulty breathing hoarseness fast heartbeat fast breathing cold, clammy skin ringing in the ears loss of hearing bloody vomit vomit that looks like coffee grounds bright red blood in stools black or tarry stools Aspirin may cause other side effects. Call your doctor if you experience any unusual problems while you are taking this medication. If you experience a serious side effect, you or your doctor may send a report to the Food and Drug Administration's (FDA) MedWatch Adverse Event Reporting program online ( http://www.fda.gov/Safety/MedWatch ) or by phone (1-800-332-1088). What should I know about storage and disposal of this medication? Keep this medication in the container it came in, tightly closed, and out of reach of children. Store it at room temperature and away from excess heat and moisture (not in the bathroom). Dispose of any tablets that have a strong vinegar smell. It is important to keep all medication out of sight and reach of children as many containers (such as weekly pill minders and those for eye drops, creams, patches, and inhalers) are not child-resistant and young children can open them easily. To protect young children from poisoning, always lock safety caps and immediately place the medication in a safe location – one that is up and away and out of their sight and reach. http://www.upandaway.org Unneeded medications should be disposed of in special ways to ensure that pets, children, and other people cannot consume them. However, you should not flush this medication down the toilet. Instead, the best way to dispose of your medication is through a medicine take-back program. Talk to your pharmacist or contact your local garbage/recycling department to learn about take-back programs in your community. See the FDA's Safe Disposal of Medicines website ( http://goo.gl/c4Rm4p ) for more information if you do not have access to a take-back program. In case of emergency/overdose In case of overdose, call the poison control helpline at 1-800-222-1222. Information is also available online at https://www.poisonhelp.org/help . If the victim has collapsed, had a seizure, has trouble breathing, or can't be awakened, immediately call emergency services at 911. Symptoms of overdose may include: burning pain in the throat or stomach vomiting decreased urination fever restlessness irritability talking a lot and saying things that do not make sense fear or nervousness dizziness double vision uncontrollable shaking of a part of the body confusion abnormally excited mood hallucination (seeing things or hearing voices that are not there) seizures drowsiness loss of consciousness for a period of time What other information should I know? Keep all appointments with your doctor. If you are taking prescription aspirin, do not let anyone else take your medication. Ask your pharmacist any questions you have about refilling your prescription. It is important for you to keep a written list of all of the prescription and nonprescription (over-the-counter) medicines you are taking, as well as any products such as vitamins, minerals, or other dietary supplements. You should bring this list with you each time you visit a doctor or if you are admitted to a hospital. It is also important information to carry with you in case of emergencies. Brand names Acuprin ® Anacin ® Aspirin Regimen Ascriptin ® Aspergum ® Aspidrox ® Aspir-Mox ® Aspirtab ® Aspir-trin ® Bayer ® Aspirin Bufferin ® Buffex ® Easprin ® Ecotrin ® Empirin ® Entaprin ® Entercote ® Fasprin ® Genacote ® Gennin-FC ® Genprin ® Halfprin ® Magnaprin ® Miniprin ® Minitabs ® Ridiprin ® Sloprin ® Uni-Buff ® Uni-Tren ® Valomag ® Zorprin ®

[ Aspirin pronounced as (as' pir in) To use the sharing features on this page, please enable JavaScript. Why is this medication prescribed? How should this medicine be used? Other uses for this medicine What special precautions should I follow? What special dietary instructions should I follow? What should I do if I forget a dose? What side effects can this medication cause? What should I know about storage and disposal of this medication? In case of emergency/overdose What other information should I know? Brand names Other names Why is this medication prescribed? Prescription aspirin is used to relieve the symptoms of rheumatoid arthritis (arthritis caused by swelling of the lining of the joints), osteoarthritis (arthritis caused by breakdown of the lining of the joints), systemic lupus erythematosus (condition in which the immune system attacks the joints and organs and causes pain and swelling) and certain other rheumatologic conditions (conditions in which the immune system attacks parts of the body). Nonprescription aspirin is used to reduce fever and to relieve mild to moderate pain from headaches, menstrual periods, arthritis, toothaches, and muscle aches. Nonprescription aspirin is also used to prevent heart attacks in people who have had a heart attack in the past or who have angina (chest pain that occurs when the heart does not get enough oxygen). Nonprescription aspirin is also used to reduce the risk of death in people who are experiencing or who have recently experienced a heart attack. Nonprescription aspirin is also used to prevent ischemic strokes (strokes that occur when a blood clot blocks the flow of blood to the brain) or mini-strokes (strokes that occur when the flow of blood to the brain is blocked for a short time) in people who have had this type of stroke or mini-stroke in the past. Aspirin will not prevent hemorrhagic strokes (strokes caused by bleeding in the brain). Aspirin is in a group of medications called salicylates. It works by stopping the production of certain natural substances that cause fever, pain, swelling, and blood clots. Aspirin is also available in combination with other medications such as antacids, pain relievers, and cough and cold medications. This monograph only includes information about the use of aspirin alone. If you are taking a combination product, read the information on the package or prescription label or ask your doctor or pharmacist for more information. How should this medicine be used? Prescription aspirin comes as an extended-release (long-acting) tablet. Nonprescription aspirin comes as a regular tablet, a delayed-release (releases the medication in the intestine to prevent damage to the stomach) tablet, a chewable tablet, powder, and a gum to take by mouth. Prescription aspirin is usually taken two or more times a day. Nonprescription aspirin is usually taken once a day to lower the risk of a heart attack or stroke. Nonprescription aspirin is usually taken every 4 to 6 hours as needed to treat fever or pain. Follow the directions on the package or prescription label carefully, and ask your doctor or pharmacist to explain any part you do not understand. Take aspirin exactly as directed. Do not take more or less of it or take it more often than directed by the package label or prescribed by your doctor. Swallow the extended-release tablets whole with a full glass of water. Do not break, crush, or chew them. Swallow the delayed-release tablets with a full glass of water. Chewable aspirin tablets may be chewed, crushed, or swallowed whole. Drink a full glass of water, immediately after taking these tablets. Ask a doctor before you give aspirin to your child or teenager. Aspirin may cause Reye's syndrome (a serious condition in which fat builds up on the brain, liver, and other body organs) in children and teenagers, especially if they have a virus such as chicken pox or the flu. If you have had oral surgery or surgery to remove your tonsils in the last 7 days, talk to your doctor about which types of aspirin are safe for you. Delayed-release tablets begin to work some time after they are taken. Do not take delayed-release tablets for fever or pain that must be relieved quickly. Stop taking aspirin and call your doctor if your fever lasts longer than 3 days, if your pain lasts longer than 10 days, or if the part of your body that was painful becomes red or swollen. You may have a condition that must be treated by a doctor. Other uses for this medicine Aspirin is also sometimes used to treat rheumatic fever (a serious condition that may develop after a strep throat infection and may cause swelling of the heart valves) and Kawasaki disease (an illness that may cause heart problems in children). Aspirin is also sometimes used to lower the risk of blood clots in patients who have artificial heart valves or certain other heart conditions and to prevent certain complications of pregnancy. What special precautions should I follow? Before taking aspirin, tell your doctor and pharmacist if you are allergic to aspirin, other medications for pain or fever, tartrazine dye, or any other medications. tell your doctor and pharmacist what prescription and nonprescription medications, vitamins, nutritional supplements, and herbal products you are taking or plan to take. Be sure to mention any of the following: acetazolamide (Diamox); angiotensin-converting enzyme (ACE) inhibitors such as benazepril (Lotensin), captopril (Capoten), enalapril (Vasotec), fosinopril (Monopril), lisinopril (Prinivil, Zestril), moexipril (Univasc), perindopril, (Aceon), quinapril (Accupril), ramipril (Altace), and trandolapril (Mavik); anticoagulants ('blood thinners') such as warfarin (Coumadin) and heparin; beta blockers such as atenolol (Tenormin), labetalol (Normodyne), metoprolol (Lopressor, Toprol XL), nadolol (Corgard), and propranolol (Inderal); diuretics ('water pills'); medications for diabetes or arthritis; medications for gout such as probenecid and sulfinpyrazone (Anturane); methotrexate (Trexall); other nonsteroidal anti-inflammatory drugs (NSAIDs) such as naproxen (Aleve, Naprosyn); phenytoin (Dilantin); and valproic acid (Depakene, Depakote). Your doctor may need to change the doses of your medications or monitor you more carefully for side effects. if you are taking aspirin on a regular basis to prevent heart attack or stroke, do not take ibuprofen (Advil, Motrin) to treat pain or fever without talking to your doctor. Your doctor will probably tell you to allow some time to pass between taking your daily dose of aspirin and taking a dose of ibuprofen. tell your doctor if you have or have ever had asthma, frequent stuffed or runny nose, or nasal polyps (growths on the linings of the nose). If you have these conditions, there is a risk that you will have an allergic reaction to aspirin. Your doctor may tell you that you should not take aspirin. tell your doctor if you often have heartburn, upset stomach, or stomach pain and if you have or have ever had ulcers, anemia, bleeding problems such as hemophilia, or kidney or liver disease. tell your doctor if you are pregnant, you plan to become pregnant, or if you are breast-feeding. Low dose aspirin 81-mg may be taken during pregnancy, but aspirin doses greater that 81 mg may harm the fetus and cause problems with delivery if it is taken around 20 weeks or later during pregnancy. Do not take aspirin doses greater that 81 mg (e.g., 325 mg) around or after 20 weeks of pregnancy, unless told to do so by your doctor. If you become pregnant while taking aspirin or aspirin containing medications, call your doctor. if you are having surgery, including dental surgery, tell the doctor or dentist that you are taking aspirin. if you drink three or more alcoholic drinks every day, ask your doctor if you should take aspirin or other medications for pain and fever. What special dietary instructions should I follow? Unless your doctor tells you otherwise, continue your normal diet. What should I do if I forget a dose? If your doctor has told you to take aspirin on a regular basis and you miss a dose, take the missed dose as soon as you remember it. However, if it is almost time for the next dose, skip the missed dose and continue your regular dosing schedule. Do not take a double dose to make up for a missed one. What side effects can this medication cause? Aspirin may cause side effects. Tell your doctor if any of these symptoms are severe or do not go away: nausea vomiting stomach pain heartburn Some side effects can be serious. If you experience any of the following symptoms, call your doctor immediately: hives rash swelling of the eyes, face, lips, tongue, or throat wheezing or difficulty breathing hoarseness fast heartbeat fast breathing cold, clammy skin ringing in the ears loss of hearing bloody vomit vomit that looks like coffee grounds bright red blood in stools black or tarry stools Aspirin may cause other side effects. Call your doctor if you experience any unusual problems while you are taking this medication. If you experience a serious side effect, you or your doctor may send a report to the Food and Drug Administration's (FDA) MedWatch Adverse Event Reporting program online ( http://www.fda.gov/Safety/MedWatch ) or by phone (1-800-332-1088). What should I know about storage and disposal of this medication? Keep this medication in the container it came in, tightly closed, and out of reach of children. Store it at room temperature and away from excess heat and moisture (not in the bathroom). Dispose of any tablets that have a strong vinegar smell. It is important to keep all medication out of sight and reach of children as many containers (such as weekly pill minders and those for eye drops, creams, patches, and inhalers) are not child-resistant and young children can open them easily. To protect young children from poisoning, always lock safety caps and immediately place the medication in a safe location – one that is up and away and out of their sight and reach. http://www.upandaway.org Unneeded medications should be disposed of in special ways to ensure that pets, children, and other people cannot consume them. However, you should not flush this medication down the toilet. Instead, the best way to dispose of your medication is through a medicine take-back program. Talk to your pharmacist or contact your local garbage/recycling department to learn about take-back programs in your community. See the FDA's Safe Disposal of Medicines website ( http://goo.gl/c4Rm4p ) for more information if you do not have access to a take-back program. In case of emergency/overdose In case of overdose, call the poison control helpline at 1-800-222-1222. Information is also available online at https://www.poisonhelp.org/help . If the victim has collapsed, had a seizure, has trouble breathing, or can't be awakened, immediately call emergency services at 911. Symptoms of overdose may include: burning pain in the throat or stomach vomiting decreased urination fever restlessness irritability talking a lot and saying things that do not make sense fear or nervousness dizziness double vision uncontrollable shaking of a part of the body confusion abnormally excited mood hallucination (seeing things or hearing voices that are not there) seizures drowsiness loss of consciousness for a period of time What other information should I know? Keep all appointments with your doctor. If you are taking prescription aspirin, do not let anyone else take your medication. Ask your pharmacist any questions you have about refilling your prescription. It is important for you to keep a written list of all of the prescription and nonprescription (over-the-counter) medicines you are taking, as well as any products such as vitamins, minerals, or other dietary supplements. You should bring this list with you each time you visit a doctor or if you are admitted to a hospital. It is also important information to carry with you in case of emergencies. Brand names Acuprin ® Anacin ® Aspirin Regimen Ascriptin ® Aspergum ® Aspidrox ® Aspir-Mox ® Aspirtab ® Aspir-trin ® Bayer ® Aspirin Bufferin ® Buffex ® Easprin ® Ecotrin ® Empirin ® Entaprin ® Entercote ® Fasprin ® Genacote ® Gennin-FC ® Genprin ® Halfprin ® Magnaprin ® Miniprin ® Minitabs ® Ridiprin ® Sloprin ® Uni-Buff ® Uni-Tren ® Valomag ® Zorprin ®

[ Aspirin pronounced as (as' pir in) To use the sharing features on this page, please enable JavaScript. Why is this medication prescribed? How should this medicine be used? Other uses for this medicine What special precautions should I follow? What special dietary instructions should I follow? What should I do if I forget a dose? What side effects can this medication cause? What should I know about storage and disposal of this medication? In case of emergency/overdose What other information should I know? Brand names Other names Why is this medication prescribed? Prescription aspirin is used to relieve the symptoms of rheumatoid arthritis (arthritis caused by swelling of the lining of the joints), osteoarthritis (arthritis caused by breakdown of the lining of the joints), systemic lupus erythematosus (condition in which the immune system attacks the joints and organs and causes pain and swelling) and certain other rheumatologic conditions (conditions in which the immune system attacks parts of the body). Nonprescription aspirin is used to reduce fever and to relieve mild to moderate pain from headaches, menstrual periods, arthritis, toothaches, and muscle aches. Nonprescription aspirin is also used to prevent heart attacks in people who have had a heart attack in the past or who have angina (chest pain that occurs when the heart does not get enough oxygen). Nonprescription aspirin is also used to reduce the risk of death in people who are experiencing or who have recently experienced a heart attack. Nonprescription aspirin is also used to prevent ischemic strokes (strokes that occur when a blood clot blocks the flow of blood to the brain) or mini-strokes (strokes that occur when the flow of blood to the brain is blocked for a short time) in people who have had this type of stroke or mini-stroke in the past. Aspirin will not prevent hemorrhagic strokes (strokes caused by bleeding in the brain). Aspirin is in a group of medications called salicylates. It works by stopping the production of certain natural substances that cause fever, pain, swelling, and blood clots. Aspirin is also available in combination with other medications such as antacids, pain relievers, and cough and cold medications. This monograph only includes information about the use of aspirin alone. If you are taking a combination product, read the information on the package or prescription label or ask your doctor or pharmacist for more information. How should this medicine be used? Prescription aspirin comes as an extended-release (long-acting) tablet. Nonprescription aspirin comes as a regular tablet, a delayed-release (releases the medication in the intestine to prevent damage to the stomach) tablet, a chewable tablet, powder, and a gum to take by mouth. Prescription aspirin is usually taken two or more times a day. Nonprescription aspirin is usually taken once a day to lower the risk of a heart attack or stroke. Nonprescription aspirin is usually taken every 4 to 6 hours as needed to treat fever or pain. Follow the directions on the package or prescription label carefully, and ask your doctor or pharmacist to explain any part you do not understand. Take aspirin exactly as directed. Do not take more or less of it or take it more often than directed by the package label or prescribed by your doctor. Swallow the extended-release tablets whole with a full glass of water. Do not break, crush, or chew them. Swallow the delayed-release tablets with a full glass of water. Chewable aspirin tablets may be chewed, crushed, or swallowed whole. Drink a full glass of water, immediately after taking these tablets. Ask a doctor before you give aspirin to your child or teenager. Aspirin may cause Reye's syndrome (a serious condition in which fat builds up on the brain, liver, and other body organs) in children and teenagers, especially if they have a virus such as chicken pox or the flu. If you have had oral surgery or surgery to remove your tonsils in the last 7 days, talk to your doctor about which types of aspirin are safe for you. Delayed-release tablets begin to work some time after they are taken. Do not take delayed-release tablets for fever or pain that must be relieved quickly. Stop taking aspirin and call your doctor if your fever lasts longer than 3 days, if your pain lasts longer than 10 days, or if the part of your body that was painful becomes red or swollen. You may have a condition that must be treated by a doctor. Other uses for this medicine Aspirin is also sometimes used to treat rheumatic fever (a serious condition that may develop after a strep throat infection and may cause swelling of the heart valves) and Kawasaki disease (an illness that may cause heart problems in children). Aspirin is also sometimes used to lower the risk of blood clots in patients who have artificial heart valves or certain other heart conditions and to prevent certain complications of pregnancy. What special precautions should I follow? Before taking aspirin, tell your doctor and pharmacist if you are allergic to aspirin, other medications for pain or fever, tartrazine dye, or any other medications. tell your doctor and pharmacist what prescription and nonprescription medications, vitamins, nutritional supplements, and herbal products you are taking or plan to take. Be sure to mention any of the following: acetazolamide (Diamox); angiotensin-converting enzyme (ACE) inhibitors such as benazepril (Lotensin), captopril (Capoten), enalapril (Vasotec), fosinopril (Monopril), lisinopril (Prinivil, Zestril), moexipril (Univasc), perindopril, (Aceon), quinapril (Accupril), ramipril (Altace), and trandolapril (Mavik); anticoagulants ('blood thinners') such as warfarin (Coumadin) and heparin; beta blockers such as atenolol (Tenormin), labetalol (Normodyne), metoprolol (Lopressor, Toprol XL), nadolol (Corgard), and propranolol (Inderal); diuretics ('water pills'); medications for diabetes or arthritis; medications for gout such as probenecid and sulfinpyrazone (Anturane); methotrexate (Trexall); other nonsteroidal anti-inflammatory drugs (NSAIDs) such as naproxen (Aleve, Naprosyn); phenytoin (Dilantin); and valproic acid (Depakene, Depakote). Your doctor may need to change the doses of your medications or monitor you more carefully for side effects. if you are taking aspirin on a regular basis to prevent heart attack or stroke, do not take ibuprofen (Advil, Motrin) to treat pain or fever without talking to your doctor. Your doctor will probably tell you to allow some time to pass between taking your daily dose of aspirin and taking a dose of ibuprofen. tell your doctor if you have or have ever had asthma, frequent stuffed or runny nose, or nasal polyps (growths on the linings of the nose). If you have these conditions, there is a risk that you will have an allergic reaction to aspirin. Your doctor may tell you that you should not take aspirin. tell your doctor if you often have heartburn, upset stomach, or stomach pain and if you have or have ever had ulcers, anemia, bleeding problems such as hemophilia, or kidney or liver disease. tell your doctor if you are pregnant, you plan to become pregnant, or if you are breast-feeding. Low dose aspirin 81-mg may be taken during pregnancy, but aspirin doses greater that 81 mg may harm the fetus and cause problems with delivery if it is taken around 20 weeks or later during pregnancy. Do not take aspirin doses greater that 81 mg (e.g., 325 mg) around or after 20 weeks of pregnancy, unless told to do so by your doctor. If you become pregnant while taking aspirin or aspirin containing medications, call your doctor. if you are having surgery, including dental surgery, tell the doctor or dentist that you are taking aspirin. if you drink three or more alcoholic drinks every day, ask your doctor if you should take aspirin or other medications for pain and fever. What special dietary instructions should I follow? Unless your doctor tells you otherwise, continue your normal diet. What should I do if I forget a dose? If your doctor has told you to take aspirin on a regular basis and you miss a dose, take the missed dose as soon as you remember it. However, if it is almost time for the next dose, skip the missed dose and continue your regular dosing schedule. Do not take a double dose to make up for a missed one. What side effects can this medication cause? Aspirin may cause side effects. Tell your doctor if any of these symptoms are severe or do not go away: nausea vomiting stomach pain heartburn Some side effects can be serious. If you experience any of the following symptoms, call your doctor immediately: hives rash swelling of the eyes, face, lips, tongue, or throat wheezing or difficulty breathing hoarseness fast heartbeat fast breathing cold, clammy skin ringing in the ears loss of hearing bloody vomit vomit that looks like coffee grounds bright red blood in stools black or tarry stools Aspirin may cause other side effects. Call your doctor if you experience any unusual problems while you are taking this medication. If you experience a serious side effect, you or your doctor may send a report to the Food and Drug Administration's (FDA) MedWatch Adverse Event Reporting program online ( http://www.fda.gov/Safety/MedWatch ) or by phone (1-800-332-1088). What should I know about storage and disposal of this medication? Keep this medication in the container it came in, tightly closed, and out of reach of children. Store it at room temperature and away from excess heat and moisture (not in the bathroom). Dispose of any tablets that have a strong vinegar smell. It is important to keep all medication out of sight and reach of children as many containers (such as weekly pill minders and those for eye drops, creams, patches, and inhalers) are not child-resistant and young children can open them easily. To protect young children from poisoning, always lock safety caps and immediately place the medication in a safe location – one that is up and away and out of their sight and reach. http://www.upandaway.org Unneeded medications should be disposed of in special ways to ensure that pets, children, and other people cannot consume them. However, you should not flush this medication down the toilet. Instead, the best way to dispose of your medication is through a medicine take-back program. Talk to your pharmacist or contact your local garbage/recycling department to learn about take-back programs in your community. See the FDA's Safe Disposal of Medicines website ( http://goo.gl/c4Rm4p ) for more information if you do not have access to a take-back program. In case of emergency/overdose In case of overdose, call the poison control helpline at 1-800-222-1222. Information is also available online at https://www.poisonhelp.org/help . If the victim has collapsed, had a seizure, has trouble breathing, or can't be awakened, immediately call emergency services at 911. Symptoms of overdose may include: burning pain in the throat or stomach vomiting decreased urination fever restlessness irritability talking a lot and saying things that do not make sense fear or nervousness dizziness double vision uncontrollable shaking of a part of the body confusion abnormally excited mood hallucination (seeing things or hearing voices that are not there) seizures drowsiness loss of consciousness for a period of time What other information should I know? Keep all appointments with your doctor. If you are taking prescription aspirin, do not let anyone else take your medication. Ask your pharmacist any questions you have about refilling your prescription. It is important for you to keep a written list of all of the prescription and nonprescription (over-the-counter) medicines you are taking, as well as any products such as vitamins, minerals, or other dietary supplements. You should bring this list with you each time you visit a doctor or if you are admitted to a hospital. It is also important information to carry with you in case of emergencies. Brand names Acuprin ® Anacin ® Aspirin Regimen Ascriptin ® Aspergum ® Aspidrox ® Aspir-Mox ® Aspirtab ® Aspir-trin ® Bayer ® Aspirin Bufferin ® Buffex ® Easprin ® Ecotrin ® Empirin ® Entaprin ® Entercote ® Fasprin ® Genacote ® Gennin-FC ® Genprin ® Halfprin ® Magnaprin ® Miniprin ® Minitabs ® Ridiprin ® Sloprin ® Uni-Buff ® Uni-Tren ® Valomag ® Zorprin ®

[ Aspirin pronounced as (as' pir in) To use the sharing features on this page, please enable JavaScript. Why is this medication prescribed? How should this medicine be used? Other uses for this medicine What special precautions should I follow? What special dietary instructions should I follow? What should I do if I forget a dose? What side effects can this medication cause? What should I know about storage and disposal of this medication? In case of emergency/overdose What other information should I know? Brand names Other names Why is this medication prescribed? Prescription aspirin is used to relieve the symptoms of rheumatoid arthritis (arthritis caused by swelling of the lining of the joints), osteoarthritis (arthritis caused by breakdown of the lining of the joints), systemic lupus erythematosus (condition in which the immune system attacks the joints and organs and causes pain and swelling) and certain other rheumatologic conditions (conditions in which the immune system attacks parts of the body). Nonprescription aspirin is used to reduce fever and to relieve mild to moderate pain from headaches, menstrual periods, arthritis, toothaches, and muscle aches. Nonprescription aspirin is also used to prevent heart attacks in people who have had a heart attack in the past or who have angina (chest pain that occurs when the heart does not get enough oxygen). Nonprescription aspirin is also used to reduce the risk of death in people who are experiencing or who have recently experienced a heart attack. Nonprescription aspirin is also used to prevent ischemic strokes (strokes that occur when a blood clot blocks the flow of blood to the brain) or mini-strokes (strokes that occur when the flow of blood to the brain is blocked for a short time) in people who have had this type of stroke or mini-stroke in the past. Aspirin will not prevent hemorrhagic strokes (strokes caused by bleeding in the brain). Aspirin is in a group of medications called salicylates. It works by stopping the production of certain natural substances that cause fever, pain, swelling, and blood clots. Aspirin is also available in combination with other medications such as antacids, pain relievers, and cough and cold medications. This monograph only includes information about the use of aspirin alone. If you are taking a combination product, read the information on the package or prescription label or ask your doctor or pharmacist for more information. How should this medicine be used? Prescription aspirin comes as an extended-release (long-acting) tablet. Nonprescription aspirin comes as a regular tablet, a delayed-release (releases the medication in the intestine to prevent damage to the stomach) tablet, a chewable tablet, powder, and a gum to take by mouth. Prescription aspirin is usually taken two or more times a day. Nonprescription aspirin is usually taken once a day to lower the risk of a heart attack or stroke. Nonprescription aspirin is usually taken every 4 to 6 hours as needed to treat fever or pain. Follow the directions on the package or prescription label carefully, and ask your doctor or pharmacist to explain any part you do not understand. Take aspirin exactly as directed. Do not take more or less of it or take it more often than directed by the package label or prescribed by your doctor. Swallow the extended-release tablets whole with a full glass of water. Do not break, crush, or chew them. Swallow the delayed-release tablets with a full glass of water. Chewable aspirin tablets may be chewed, crushed, or swallowed whole. Drink a full glass of water, immediately after taking these tablets. Ask a doctor before you give aspirin to your child or teenager. Aspirin may cause Reye's syndrome (a serious condition in which fat builds up on the brain, liver, and other body organs) in children and teenagers, especially if they have a virus such as chicken pox or the flu. If you have had oral surgery or surgery to remove your tonsils in the last 7 days, talk to your doctor about which types of aspirin are safe for you. Delayed-release tablets begin to work some time after they are taken. Do not take delayed-release tablets for fever or pain that must be relieved quickly. Stop taking aspirin and call your doctor if your fever lasts longer than 3 days, if your pain lasts longer than 10 days, or if the part of your body that was painful becomes red or swollen. You may have a condition that must be treated by a doctor. Other uses for this medicine Aspirin is also sometimes used to treat rheumatic fever (a serious condition that may develop after a strep throat infection and may cause swelling of the heart valves) and Kawasaki disease (an illness that may cause heart problems in children). Aspirin is also sometimes used to lower the risk of blood clots in patients who have artificial heart valves or certain other heart conditions and to prevent certain complications of pregnancy. What special precautions should I follow? Before taking aspirin, tell your doctor and pharmacist if you are allergic to aspirin, other medications for pain or fever, tartrazine dye, or any other medications. tell your doctor and pharmacist what prescription and nonprescription medications, vitamins, nutritional supplements, and herbal products you are taking or plan to take. Be sure to mention any of the following: acetazolamide (Diamox); angiotensin-converting enzyme (ACE) inhibitors such as benazepril (Lotensin), captopril (Capoten), enalapril (Vasotec), fosinopril (Monopril), lisinopril (Prinivil, Zestril), moexipril (Univasc), perindopril, (Aceon), quinapril (Accupril), ramipril (Altace), and trandolapril (Mavik); anticoagulants ('blood thinners') such as warfarin (Coumadin) and heparin; beta blockers such as atenolol (Tenormin), labetalol (Normodyne), metoprolol (Lopressor, Toprol XL), nadolol (Corgard), and propranolol (Inderal); diuretics ('water pills'); medications for diabetes or arthritis; medications for gout such as probenecid and sulfinpyrazone (Anturane); methotrexate (Trexall); other nonsteroidal anti-inflammatory drugs (NSAIDs) such as naproxen (Aleve, Naprosyn); phenytoin (Dilantin); and valproic acid (Depakene, Depakote). Your doctor may need to change the doses of your medications or monitor you more carefully for side effects. if you are taking aspirin on a regular basis to prevent heart attack or stroke, do not take ibuprofen (Advil, Motrin) to treat pain or fever without talking to your doctor. Your doctor will probably tell you to allow some time to pass between taking your daily dose of aspirin and taking a dose of ibuprofen. tell your doctor if you have or have ever had asthma, frequent stuffed or runny nose, or nasal polyps (growths on the linings of the nose). If you have these conditions, there is a risk that you will have an allergic reaction to aspirin. Your doctor may tell you that you should not take aspirin. tell your doctor if you often have heartburn, upset stomach, or stomach pain and if you have or have ever had ulcers, anemia, bleeding problems such as hemophilia, or kidney or liver disease. tell your doctor if you are pregnant, you plan to become pregnant, or if you are breast-feeding. Low dose aspirin 81-mg may be taken during pregnancy, but aspirin doses greater that 81 mg may harm the fetus and cause problems with delivery if it is taken around 20 weeks or later during pregnancy. Do not take aspirin doses greater that 81 mg (e.g., 325 mg) around or after 20 weeks of pregnancy, unless told to do so by your doctor. If you become pregnant while taking aspirin or aspirin containing medications, call your doctor. if you are having surgery, including dental surgery, tell the doctor or dentist that you are taking aspirin. if you drink three or more alcoholic drinks every day, ask your doctor if you should take aspirin or other medications for pain and fever. What special dietary instructions should I follow? Unless your doctor tells you otherwise, continue your normal diet. What should I do if I forget a dose? If your doctor has told you to take aspirin on a regular basis and you miss a dose, take the missed dose as soon as you remember it. However, if it is almost time for the next dose, skip the missed dose and continue your regular dosing schedule. Do not take a double dose to make up for a missed one. What side effects can this medication cause? Aspirin may cause side effects. Tell your doctor if any of these symptoms are severe or do not go away: nausea vomiting stomach pain heartburn Some side effects can be serious. If you experience any of the following symptoms, call your doctor immediately: hives rash swelling of the eyes, face, lips, tongue, or throat wheezing or difficulty breathing hoarseness fast heartbeat fast breathing cold, clammy skin ringing in the ears loss of hearing bloody vomit vomit that looks like coffee grounds bright red blood in stools black or tarry stools Aspirin may cause other side effects. Call your doctor if you experience any unusual problems while you are taking this medication. If you experience a serious side effect, you or your doctor may send a report to the Food and Drug Administration's (FDA) MedWatch Adverse Event Reporting program online ( http://www.fda.gov/Safety/MedWatch ) or by phone (1-800-332-1088). What should I know about storage and disposal of this medication? Keep this medication in the container it came in, tightly closed, and out of reach of children. Store it at room temperature and away from excess heat and moisture (not in the bathroom). Dispose of any tablets that have a strong vinegar smell. It is important to keep all medication out of sight and reach of children as many containers (such as weekly pill minders and those for eye drops, creams, patches, and inhalers) are not child-resistant and young children can open them easily. To protect young children from poisoning, always lock safety caps and immediately place the medication in a safe location – one that is up and away and out of their sight and reach. http://www.upandaway.org Unneeded medications should be disposed of in special ways to ensure that pets, children, and other people cannot consume them. However, you should not flush this medication down the toilet. Instead, the best way to dispose of your medication is through a medicine take-back program. Talk to your pharmacist or contact your local garbage/recycling department to learn about take-back programs in your community. See the FDA's Safe Disposal of Medicines website ( http://goo.gl/c4Rm4p ) for more information if you do not have access to a take-back program. In case of emergency/overdose In case of overdose, call the poison control helpline at 1-800-222-1222. Information is also available online at https://www.poisonhelp.org/help . If the victim has collapsed, had a seizure, has trouble breathing, or can't be awakened, immediately call emergency services at 911. Symptoms of overdose may include: burning pain in the throat or stomach vomiting decreased urination fever restlessness irritability talking a lot and saying things that do not make sense fear or nervousness dizziness double vision uncontrollable shaking of a part of the body confusion abnormally excited mood hallucination (seeing things or hearing voices that are not there) seizures drowsiness loss of consciousness for a period of time What other information should I know? Keep all appointments with your doctor. If you are taking prescription aspirin, do not let anyone else take your medication. Ask your pharmacist any questions you have about refilling your prescription. It is important for you to keep a written list of all of the prescription and nonprescription (over-the-counter) medicines you are taking, as well as any products such as vitamins, minerals, or other dietary supplements. You should bring this list with you each time you visit a doctor or if you are admitted to a hospital. It is also important information to carry with you in case of emergencies. Brand names Acuprin ® Anacin ® Aspirin Regimen Ascriptin ® Aspergum ® Aspidrox ® Aspir-Mox ® Aspirtab ® Aspir-trin ® Bayer ® Aspirin Bufferin ® Buffex ® Easprin ® Ecotrin ® Empirin ® Entaprin ® Entercote ® Fasprin ® Genacote ® Gennin-FC ® Genprin ® Halfprin ® Magnaprin ® Miniprin ® Minitabs ® Ridiprin ® Sloprin ® Uni-Buff ® Uni-Tren ® Valomag ® Zorprin ®

[ Aspirin pronounced as (as' pir in) To use the sharing features on this page, please enable JavaScript. Why is this medication prescribed? How should this medicine be used? Other uses for this medicine What special precautions should I follow? What special dietary instructions should I follow? What should I do if I forget a dose? What side effects can this medication cause? What should I know about storage and disposal of this medication? In case of emergency/overdose What other information should I know? Brand names Other names Why is this medication prescribed? Prescription aspirin is used to relieve the symptoms of rheumatoid arthritis (arthritis caused by swelling of the lining of the joints), osteoarthritis (arthritis caused by breakdown of the lining of the joints), systemic lupus erythematosus (condition in which the immune system attacks the joints and organs and causes pain and swelling) and certain other rheumatologic conditions (conditions in which the immune system attacks parts of the body). Nonprescription aspirin is used to reduce fever and to relieve mild to moderate pain from headaches, menstrual periods, arthritis, toothaches, and muscle aches. Nonprescription aspirin is also used to prevent heart attacks in people who have had a heart attack in the past or who have angina (chest pain that occurs when the heart does not get enough oxygen). Nonprescription aspirin is also used to reduce the risk of death in people who are experiencing or who have recently experienced a heart attack. Nonprescription aspirin is also used to prevent ischemic strokes (strokes that occur when a blood clot blocks the flow of blood to the brain) or mini-strokes (strokes that occur when the flow of blood to the brain is blocked for a short time) in people who have had this type of stroke or mini-stroke in the past. Aspirin will not prevent hemorrhagic strokes (strokes caused by bleeding in the brain). Aspirin is in a group of medications called salicylates. It works by stopping the production of certain natural substances that cause fever, pain, swelling, and blood clots. Aspirin is also available in combination with other medications such as antacids, pain relievers, and cough and cold medications. This monograph only includes information about the use of aspirin alone. If you are taking a combination product, read the information on the package or prescription label or ask your doctor or pharmacist for more information. How should this medicine be used? Prescription aspirin comes as an extended-release (long-acting) tablet. Nonprescription aspirin comes as a regular tablet, a delayed-release (releases the medication in the intestine to prevent damage to the stomach) tablet, a chewable tablet, powder, and a gum to take by mouth. Prescription aspirin is usually taken two or more times a day. Nonprescription aspirin is usually taken once a day to lower the risk of a heart attack or stroke. Nonprescription aspirin is usually taken every 4 to 6 hours as needed to treat fever or pain. Follow the directions on the package or prescription label carefully, and ask your doctor or pharmacist to explain any part you do not understand. Take aspirin exactly as directed. Do not take more or less of it or take it more often than directed by the package label or prescribed by your doctor. Swallow the extended-release tablets whole with a full glass of water. Do not break, crush, or chew them. Swallow the delayed-release tablets with a full glass of water. Chewable aspirin tablets may be chewed, crushed, or swallowed whole. Drink a full glass of water, immediately after taking these tablets. Ask a doctor before you give aspirin to your child or teenager. Aspirin may cause Reye's syndrome (a serious condition in which fat builds up on the brain, liver, and other body organs) in children and teenagers, especially if they have a virus such as chicken pox or the flu. If you have had oral surgery or surgery to remove your tonsils in the last 7 days, talk to your doctor about which types of aspirin are safe for you. Delayed-release tablets begin to work some time after they are taken. Do not take delayed-release tablets for fever or pain that must be relieved quickly. Stop taking aspirin and call your doctor if your fever lasts longer than 3 days, if your pain lasts longer than 10 days, or if the part of your body that was painful becomes red or swollen. You may have a condition that must be treated by a doctor. Other uses for this medicine Aspirin is also sometimes used to treat rheumatic fever (a serious condition that may develop after a strep throat infection and may cause swelling of the heart valves) and Kawasaki disease (an illness that may cause heart problems in children). Aspirin is also sometimes used to lower the risk of blood clots in patients who have artificial heart valves or certain other heart conditions and to prevent certain complications of pregnancy. What special precautions should I follow? Before taking aspirin, tell your doctor and pharmacist if you are allergic to aspirin, other medications for pain or fever, tartrazine dye, or any other medications. tell your doctor and pharmacist what prescription and nonprescription medications, vitamins, nutritional supplements, and herbal products you are taking or plan to take. Be sure to mention any of the following: acetazolamide (Diamox); angiotensin-converting enzyme (ACE) inhibitors such as benazepril (Lotensin), captopril (Capoten), enalapril (Vasotec), fosinopril (Monopril), lisinopril (Prinivil, Zestril), moexipril (Univasc), perindopril, (Aceon), quinapril (Accupril), ramipril (Altace), and trandolapril (Mavik); anticoagulants ('blood thinners') such as warfarin (Coumadin) and heparin; beta blockers such as atenolol (Tenormin), labetalol (Normodyne), metoprolol (Lopressor, Toprol XL), nadolol (Corgard), and propranolol (Inderal); diuretics ('water pills'); medications for diabetes or arthritis; medications for gout such as probenecid and sulfinpyrazone (Anturane); methotrexate (Trexall); other nonsteroidal anti-inflammatory drugs (NSAIDs) such as naproxen (Aleve, Naprosyn); phenytoin (Dilantin); and valproic acid (Depakene, Depakote). Your doctor may need to change the doses of your medications or monitor you more carefully for side effects. if you are taking aspirin on a regular basis to prevent heart attack or stroke, do not take ibuprofen (Advil, Motrin) to treat pain or fever without talking to your doctor. Your doctor will probably tell you to allow some time to pass between taking your daily dose of aspirin and taking a dose of ibuprofen. tell your doctor if you have or have ever had asthma, frequent stuffed or runny nose, or nasal polyps (growths on the linings of the nose). If you have these conditions, there is a risk that you will have an allergic reaction to aspirin. Your doctor may tell you that you should not take aspirin. tell your doctor if you often have heartburn, upset stomach, or stomach pain and if you have or have ever had ulcers, anemia, bleeding problems such as hemophilia, or kidney or liver disease. tell your doctor if you are pregnant, you plan to become pregnant, or if you are breast-feeding. Low dose aspirin 81-mg may be taken during pregnancy, but aspirin doses greater that 81 mg may harm the fetus and cause problems with delivery if it is taken around 20 weeks or later during pregnancy. Do not take aspirin doses greater that 81 mg (e.g., 325 mg) around or after 20 weeks of pregnancy, unless told to do so by your doctor. If you become pregnant while taking aspirin or aspirin containing medications, call your doctor. if you are having surgery, including dental surgery, tell the doctor or dentist that you are taking aspirin. if you drink three or more alcoholic drinks every day, ask your doctor if you should take aspirin or other medications for pain and fever. What special dietary instructions should I follow? Unless your doctor tells you otherwise, continue your normal diet. What should I do if I forget a dose? If your doctor has told you to take aspirin on a regular basis and you miss a dose, take the missed dose as soon as you remember it. However, if it is almost time for the next dose, skip the missed dose and continue your regular dosing schedule. Do not take a double dose to make up for a missed one. What side effects can this medication cause? Aspirin may cause side effects. Tell your doctor if any of these symptoms are severe or do not go away: nausea vomiting stomach pain heartburn Some side effects can be serious. If you experience any of the following symptoms, call your doctor immediately: hives rash swelling of the eyes, face, lips, tongue, or throat wheezing or difficulty breathing hoarseness fast heartbeat fast breathing cold, clammy skin ringing in the ears loss of hearing bloody vomit vomit that looks like coffee grounds bright red blood in stools black or tarry stools Aspirin may cause other side effects. Call your doctor if you experience any unusual problems while you are taking this medication. If you experience a serious side effect, you or your doctor may send a report to the Food and Drug Administration's (FDA) MedWatch Adverse Event Reporting program online ( http://www.fda.gov/Safety/MedWatch ) or by phone (1-800-332-1088). What should I know about storage and disposal of this medication? Keep this medication in the container it came in, tightly closed, and out of reach of children. Store it at room temperature and away from excess heat and moisture (not in the bathroom). Dispose of any tablets that have a strong vinegar smell. It is important to keep all medication out of sight and reach of children as many containers (such as weekly pill minders and those for eye drops, creams, patches, and inhalers) are not child-resistant and young children can open them easily. To protect young children from poisoning, always lock safety caps and immediately place the medication in a safe location – one that is up and away and out of their sight and reach. http://www.upandaway.org Unneeded medications should be disposed of in special ways to ensure that pets, children, and other people cannot consume them. However, you should not flush this medication down the toilet. Instead, the best way to dispose of your medication is through a medicine take-back program. Talk to your pharmacist or contact your local garbage/recycling department to learn about take-back programs in your community. See the FDA's Safe Disposal of Medicines website ( http://goo.gl/c4Rm4p ) for more information if you do not have access to a take-back program. In case of emergency/overdose In case of overdose, call the poison control helpline at 1-800-222-1222. Information is also available online at https://www.poisonhelp.org/help . If the victim has collapsed, had a seizure, has trouble breathing, or can't be awakened, immediately call emergency services at 911. Symptoms of overdose may include: burning pain in the throat or stomach vomiting decreased urination fever restlessness irritability talking a lot and saying things that do not make sense fear or nervousness dizziness double vision uncontrollable shaking of a part of the body confusion abnormally excited mood hallucination (seeing things or hearing voices that are not there) seizures drowsiness loss of consciousness for a period of time What other information should I know? Keep all appointments with your doctor. If you are taking prescription aspirin, do not let anyone else take your medication. Ask your pharmacist any questions you have about refilling your prescription. It is important for you to keep a written list of all of the prescription and nonprescription (over-the-counter) medicines you are taking, as well as any products such as vitamins, minerals, or other dietary supplements. You should bring this list with you each time you visit a doctor or if you are admitted to a hospital. It is also important information to carry with you in case of emergencies. Brand names Acuprin ® Anacin ® Aspirin Regimen Ascriptin ® Aspergum ® Aspidrox ® Aspir-Mox ® Aspirtab ® Aspir-trin ® Bayer ® Aspirin Bufferin ® Buffex ® Easprin ® Ecotrin ® Empirin ® Entaprin ® Entercote ® Fasprin ® Genacote ® Gennin-FC ® Genprin ® Halfprin ® Magnaprin ® Miniprin ® Minitabs ® Ridiprin ® Sloprin ® Uni-Buff ® Uni-Tren ® Valomag ® Zorprin ®



[ Aspirin pronounced as (as' pir in) To use the sharing features on this page, please enable JavaScript. Why is this medication prescribed? How should this medicine be used? Other uses for this medicine What special precautions should I follow? What special dietary instructions should I follow? What should I do if I forget a dose? What side effects can this medication cause? What should I know about storage and disposal of this medication? In case of emergency/overdose What other information should I know? Brand names Other names Why is this medication prescribed? Prescription aspirin is used to relieve the symptoms of rheumatoid arthritis (arthritis caused by swelling of the lining of the joints), osteoarthritis (arthritis caused by breakdown of the lining of the joints), systemic lupus erythematosus (condition in which the immune system attacks the joints and organs and causes pain and swelling) and certain other rheumatologic conditions (conditions in which the immune system attacks parts of the body). Nonprescription aspirin is used to reduce fever and to relieve mild to moderate pain from headaches, menstrual periods, arthritis, toothaches, and muscle aches. Nonprescription aspirin is also used to prevent heart attacks in people who have had a heart attack in the past or who have angina (chest pain that occurs when the heart does not get enough oxygen). Nonprescription aspirin is also used to reduce the risk of death in people who are experiencing or who have recently experienced a heart attack. Nonprescription aspirin is also used to prevent ischemic strokes (strokes that occur when a blood clot blocks the flow of blood to the brain) or mini-strokes (strokes that occur when the flow of blood to the brain is blocked for a short time) in people who have had this type of stroke or mini-stroke in the past. Aspirin will not prevent hemorrhagic strokes (strokes caused by bleeding in the brain). Aspirin is in a group of medications called salicylates. It works by stopping the production of certain natural substances that cause fever, pain, swelling, and blood clots. Aspirin is also available in combination with other medications such as antacids, pain relievers, and cough and cold medications. This monograph only includes information about the use of aspirin alone. If you are taking a combination product, read the information on the package or prescription label or ask your doctor or pharmacist for more information. How should this medicine be used? Prescription aspirin comes as an extended-release (long-acting) tablet. Nonprescription aspirin comes as a regular tablet, a delayed-release (releases the medication in the intestine to prevent damage to the stomach) tablet, a chewable tablet, powder, and a gum to take by mouth. Prescription aspirin is usually taken two or more times a day. Nonprescription aspirin is usually taken once a day to lower the risk of a heart attack or stroke. Nonprescription aspirin is usually taken every 4 to 6 hours as needed to treat fever or pain. Follow the directions on the package or prescription label carefully, and ask your doctor or pharmacist to explain any part you do not understand. Take aspirin exactly as directed. Do not take more or less of it or take it more often than directed by the package label or prescribed by your doctor. Swallow the extended-release tablets whole with a full glass of water. Do not break, crush, or chew them. Swallow the delayed-release tablets with a full glass of water. Chewable aspirin tablets may be chewed, crushed, or swallowed whole. Drink a full glass of water, immediately after taking these tablets. Ask a doctor before you give aspirin to your child or teenager. Aspirin may cause Reye's syndrome (a serious condition in which fat builds up on the brain, liver, and other body organs) in children and teenagers, especially if they have a virus such as chicken pox or the flu. If you have had oral surgery or surgery to remove your tonsils in the last 7 days, talk to your doctor about which types of aspirin are safe for you. Delayed-release tablets begin to work some time after they are taken. Do not take delayed-release tablets for fever or pain that must be relieved quickly. Stop taking aspirin and call your doctor if your fever lasts longer than 3 days, if your pain lasts longer than 10 days, or if the part of your body that was painful becomes red or swollen. You may have a condition that must be treated by a doctor. Other uses for this medicine Aspirin is also sometimes used to treat rheumatic fever (a serious condition that may develop after a strep throat infection and may cause swelling of the heart valves) and Kawasaki disease (an illness that may cause heart problems in children). Aspirin is also sometimes used to lower the risk of blood clots in patients who have artificial heart valves or certain other heart conditions and to prevent certain complications of pregnancy. What special precautions should I follow? Before taking aspirin, tell your doctor and pharmacist if you are allergic to aspirin, other medications for pain or fever, tartrazine dye, or any other medications. tell your doctor and pharmacist what prescription and nonprescription medications, vitamins, nutritional supplements, and herbal products you are taking or plan to take. Be sure to mention any of the following: acetazolamide (Diamox); angiotensin-converting enzyme (ACE) inhibitors such as benazepril (Lotensin), captopril (Capoten), enalapril (Vasotec), fosinopril (Monopril), lisinopril (Prinivil, Zestril), moexipril (Univasc), perindopril, (Aceon), quinapril (Accupril), ramipril (Altace), and trandolapril (Mavik); anticoagulants ('blood thinners') such as warfarin (Coumadin) and heparin; beta blockers such as atenolol (Tenormin), labetalol (Normodyne), metoprolol (Lopressor, Toprol XL), nadolol (Corgard), and propranolol (Inderal); diuretics ('water pills'); medications for diabetes or arthritis; medications for gout such as probenecid and sulfinpyrazone (Anturane); methotrexate (Trexall); other nonsteroidal anti-inflammatory drugs (NSAIDs) such as naproxen (Aleve, Naprosyn); phenytoin (Dilantin); and valproic acid (Depakene, Depakote). Your doctor may need to change the doses of your medications or monitor you more carefully for side effects. if you are taking aspirin on a regular basis to prevent heart attack or stroke, do not take ibuprofen (Advil, Motrin) to treat pain or fever without talking to your doctor. Your doctor will probably tell you to allow some time to pass between taking your daily dose of aspirin and taking a dose of ibuprofen. tell your doctor if you have or have ever had asthma, frequent stuffed or runny nose, or nasal polyps (growths on the linings of the nose). If you have these conditions, there is a risk that you will have an allergic reaction to aspirin. Your doctor may tell you that you should not take aspirin. tell your doctor if you often have heartburn, upset stomach, or stomach pain and if you have or have ever had ulcers, anemia, bleeding problems such as hemophilia, or kidney or liver disease. tell your doctor if you are pregnant, you plan to become pregnant, or if you are breast-feeding. Low dose aspirin 81-mg may be taken during pregnancy, but aspirin doses greater that 81 mg may harm the fetus and cause problems with delivery if it is taken around 20 weeks or later during pregnancy. Do not take aspirin doses greater that 81 mg (e.g., 325 mg) around or after 20 weeks of pregnancy, unless told to do so by your doctor. If you become pregnant while taking aspirin or aspirin containing medications, call your doctor. if you are having surgery, including dental surgery, tell the doctor or dentist that you are taking aspirin. if you drink three or more alcoholic drinks every day, ask your doctor if you should take aspirin or other medications for pain and fever. What special dietary instructions should I follow? Unless your doctor tells you otherwise, continue your normal diet. What should I do if I forget a dose? If your doctor has told you to take aspirin on a regular basis and you miss a dose, take the missed dose as soon as you remember it. However, if it is almost time for the next dose, skip the missed dose and continue your regular dosing schedule. Do not take a double dose to make up for a missed one. What side effects can this medication cause? Aspirin may cause side effects. Tell your doctor if any of these symptoms are severe or do not go away: nausea vomiting stomach pain heartburn Some side effects can be serious. If you experience any of the following symptoms, call your doctor immediately: hives rash swelling of the eyes, face, lips, tongue, or throat wheezing or difficulty breathing hoarseness fast heartbeat fast breathing cold, clammy skin ringing in the ears loss of hearing bloody vomit vomit that looks like coffee grounds bright red blood in stools black or tarry stools Aspirin may cause other side effects. Call your doctor if you experience any unusual problems while you are taking this medication. If you experience a serious side effect, you or your doctor may send a report to the Food and Drug Administration's (FDA) MedWatch Adverse Event Reporting program online ( http://www.fda.gov/Safety/MedWatch ) or by phone (1-800-332-1088). What should I know about storage and disposal of this medication? Keep this medication in the container it came in, tightly closed, and out of reach of children. Store it at room temperature and away from excess heat and moisture (not in the bathroom). Dispose of any tablets that have a strong vinegar smell. It is important to keep all medication out of sight and reach of children as many containers (such as weekly pill minders and those for eye drops, creams, patches, and inhalers) are not child-resistant and young children can open them easily. To protect young children from poisoning, always lock safety caps and immediately place the medication in a safe location – one that is up and away and out of their sight and reach. http://www.upandaway.org Unneeded medications should be disposed of in special ways to ensure that pets, children, and other people cannot consume them. However, you should not flush this medication down the toilet. Instead, the best way to dispose of your medication is through a medicine take-back program. Talk to your pharmacist or contact your local garbage/recycling department to learn about take-back programs in your community. See the FDA's Safe Disposal of Medicines website ( http://goo.gl/c4Rm4p ) for more information if you do not have access to a take-back program. In case of emergency/overdose In case of overdose, call the poison control helpline at 1-800-222-1222. Information is also available online at https://www.poisonhelp.org/help . If the victim has collapsed, had a seizure, has trouble breathing, or can't be awakened, immediately call emergency services at 911. Symptoms of overdose may include: burning pain in the throat or stomach vomiting decreased urination fever restlessness irritability talking a lot and saying things that do not make sense fear or nervousness dizziness double vision uncontrollable shaking of a part of the body confusion abnormally excited mood hallucination (seeing things or hearing voices that are not there) seizures drowsiness loss of consciousness for a period of time What other information should I know? Keep all appointments with your doctor. If you are taking prescription aspirin, do not let anyone else take your medication. Ask your pharmacist any questions you have about refilling your prescription. It is important for you to keep a written list of all of the prescription and nonprescription (over-the-counter) medicines you are taking, as well as any products such as vitamins, minerals, or other dietary supplements. You should bring this list with you each time you visit a doctor or if you are admitted to a hospital. It is also important information to carry with you in case of emergencies. Brand names Acuprin ® Anacin ® Aspirin Regimen Ascriptin ® Aspergum ® Aspidrox ® Aspir-Mox ® Aspirtab ® Aspir-trin ® Bayer ® Aspirin Bufferin ® Buffex ® Easprin ® Ecotrin ® Empirin ® Entaprin ® Entercote ® Fasprin ® Genacote ® Gennin-FC ® Genprin ® Halfprin ® Magnaprin ® Miniprin ® Minitabs ® Ridiprin ® Sloprin ® Uni-Buff ® Uni-Tren ® Valomag ® Zorprin ®

[ Aspirin and Extended-Release Dipyridamole pronounced as (dye peer id' a mole) To use the sharing features on this page, please enable JavaScript. Why is this medication prescribed? How should this medicine be used? Other uses for this medicine What special precautions should I follow? What special dietary instructions should I follow? What should I do if I forget a dose? What side effects can this medication cause? What should I know about storage and disposal of this medication? In case of emergency/overdose What other information should I know? Why is this medication prescribed? The combination of aspirin and extended-release dipyridamole is in a class of drugs called antiplatelet agents. It works by preventing excessive blood clotting. It is used to reduce the risk of stroke in patients who have had or are at risk of stroke. How should this medicine be used? The combination of aspirin and extended-release dipyridamole comes as a capsule to take by mouth. It is usually taken twice a day, one capsule in the morning and one in the evening. Aspirin and extended-release dipyridamole should be swallowed whole. Do not open, crush, break, or chew the capsules. Follow the directions on your prescription label carefully, and ask your doctor or pharmacist to explain any part you do not understand. Take aspirin and extended-release dipyridamole exactly as directed. Do not take more or less of it or take it more often than prescribed by your doctor. The combination of aspirin and extended-release dipyridamole decreases the risk of having a stroke but does not eliminate that risk. Continue to take aspirin and extended-release dipyridamole even if you feel well. Do not stop taking aspirin and extended-release dipyridamole without talking to your doctor. Other uses for this medicine This medication may be prescribed for other uses; ask your doctor or pharmacist for more information. What special precautions should I follow? Before taking aspirin and extended-release dipyridamole, tell your doctor and pharmacist if you are allergic to aspirin, celecoxib (Celebrex), choline salicylate (Arthropan), diclofenac (Cataflam), diflunisal (Dolobid), dipyridamole (Persantine), etodolac (Lodine), fenoprofen (Nalfon), flurbiprofen (Ansaid), ibuprofen (Advil, Motrin, Nuprin), indomethacin (Indocin), ketoprofen (Orudis, Oruvail), ketorolac (Toradol), magnesium salicylate (Nuprin Backache, Doan's), meclofenamate, mefenamic acid (Ponstel), meloxicam (Mobic), nabumetone (Relafen), naproxen (Aleve, Naprosyn), oxaprozin (Daypro), piroxicam (Feldene), rofecoxib (Vioxx) (no longer available in the US), sulindac (Clinoril), tolmetin (Tolectin), or any other drugs. tell your doctor and pharmacist what other prescription and nonprescription medications, vitamins, nutritional supplements, and herbal products you are taking or plan to take. Be sure to mention any of the following: acetazolamide (Diamox); ambenonium (Mytelase); angiotensin-converting enzyme inhibitors such as benazepril (Lotensin), captopril (Capoten), enalapril (Vasotec), fosinopril (Monopril), lisinopril (Prinivil, Zestril), moexipril (Univasc), quinapril (Accupril), ramipril (Altace), and trandolapril (Mavik); anticoagulants ('blood thinners') such as warfarin (Coumadin) and heparin; beta-blockers such as acebutolol (Sectral), atenolol (Tenormin), betaxolol (Kerlone), bisoprolol (Zebeta), carteolol (Cartrol), carvedilol (Coreg), labetalol (Normodyne), metoprolol (Lopressor), nadolol (Corgard), penbutolol (Levatol), pindolol (Visken), propranolol (Inderal), sotalol (Betapace), and timolol (Blocadren); diabetes medications such as acetohexamide (Dymelor), chlorpropamide (Diabinese), glimepiride (Amaryl), glipizide (Glucotrol), glyburide (DiaBeta, Micronase, Glynase), repaglinide (Prandin), tolazamide (Tolinase), and tolbutamide (Orinase); diuretics ('water pills') such as amiloride (Midamor), bumetanide (Bumex), chlorothiazide (Diuril), chlorthalidone (Hygroton), ethacrynic acid (Edecrin), furosemide (Lasix), hydrochlorothiazide (Hydrodiuril), indapamide (Lozol), metolazone (Zaroxolyn), spironolactone (Aldactone), torsemide (Demadex), and triamterene (Dyrenium); methotrexate (Folex, Mexate, Rheumatrex); neostigmine (Prostigmin); nonsteroidal anti-inflammatory drugs (NSAIDs) such as celecoxib (Celebrex), choline salicylate (Arthropan), diclofenac (Cataflam), diflunisal (Dolobid), etodolac (Lodine), fenoprofen (Nalfon), flurbiprofen (Ansaid), ibuprofen (Advil, Motrin, Nuprin, others), indomethacin (Indocin), ketoprofen (Orudis, Oruvail), ketorolac (Toradol), magnesium salicylate (Nuprin Backache, Doan's), meclofenamate, mefenamic acid (Ponstel), meloxicam (Mobic), nabumetone (Relafen), naproxen (Aleve, Naprosyn), oxaprozin (Daypro), piroxicam (Feldene), sulindac (Clinoril), and tolmetin (Tolectin); phenytoin (Dilantin); probenecid (Benemid); pyridostigmine (Mestinon); sulfinpyrazone (Anturane); and valproic acid and related drugs (Depakene, Depakote). tell your doctor if you have or have ever had liver, kidney, or heart disease; a recent heart attack; bleeding disorders; low blood pressure; vitamin K deficiency; ulcers; the syndrome of asthma, rhinitis, and nasal polyps; or if you drink three or more alcoholic drinks a day. tell your doctor if you are pregnant, plan to become pregnant; or are breast-feeding. Aspirin may harm the fetus and cause problems with delivery if it is taken around 20 weeks or later during pregnancy. Do not take aspirin and extended-release dipyridamole around or after 20 weeks of pregnancy, unless you are told to do so by your doctor. If you become pregnant while taking aspirin and extended-release dipyridamole, call your doctor. if you are having surgery, including dental surgery, tell the doctor or dentist that you are taking aspirin and extended-release dipyridamole. Your doctor may tell you to stop taking aspirin and extended-release dipyridamole before surgery. What special dietary instructions should I follow? Unless your doctor tells you otherwise, continue your normal diet while taking aspirin and extended-release dipyridamole. What should I do if I forget a dose? Take the missed dose as soon as you remember it. However, if it is almost time for the next dose, skip the missed dose and continue your regular dosing schedule. Do not take a double dose to make up for a missed one. What side effects can this medication cause? Side effects from aspirin and extended-release dipyridamole can occur. Tell your doctor if any of these symptoms are severe or do not go away: headache heartburn stomach pain nausea vomiting diarrhea muscle and joint pain tiredness If you experience any of the following symptoms, call your doctor immediately: bleeding severe rash swelling of the lips, tongue, or mouth difficulty breathing warm feeling flushing sweating restlessness weakness dizziness chest pain rapid heartbeat ringing in the ears If you experience a serious side effect, you or your doctor may send a report to the Food and Drug Administration's (FDA) MedWatch Adverse Event Reporting program online ( http://www.fda.gov/Safety/MedWatch ) or by phone (1-800-332-1088). What should I know about storage and disposal of this medication? Keep this medication in the container it came in, tightly closed, and out of reach of children. Store it at room temperature and away from excess heat and moisture (not in the bathroom). It is important to keep all medication out of sight and reach of children as many containers (such as weekly pill minders and those for eye drops, creams, patches, and inhalers) are not child-resistant and young children can open them easily. To protect young children from poisoning, always lock safety caps and immediately place the medication in a safe location – one that is up and away and out of their sight and reach. http://www.upandaway.org Unneeded medications should be disposed of in special ways to ensure that pets, children, and other people cannot consume them. However, you should not flush this medication down the toilet. Instead, the best way to dispose of your medication is through a medicine take-back program. Talk to your pharmacist or contact your local garbage/recycling department to learn about take-back programs in your community. See the FDA's Safe Disposal of Medicines website ( http://goo.gl/c4Rm4p ) for more information if you do not have access to a take-back program. In case of emergency/overdose In case of overdose, call the poison control helpline at 1-800-222-1222. Information is also available online at https://www.poisonhelp.org/help . If the victim has collapsed, had a seizure, has trouble breathing, or can't be awakened, immediately call emergency services at 911. What other information should I know? Do not substitute the individual components of aspirin and dipyridamole (Persantine) for the combination product of aspirin and extended-release dipyridamole. Keep all appointments with your doctor and the laboratory. Your doctor may order certain lab tests to check your response to aspirin and extended-release dipyridamole. Do not let anyone else take your medication. Ask your pharmacist any questions you have about refilling your prescription. It is important for you to keep a written list of all of the prescription and nonprescription (over-the-counter) medicines you are taking, as well as any products such as vitamins, minerals, or other dietary supplements. You should bring this list with you each time you visit a doctor or if you are admitted to a hospital. It is also important information to carry with you in case of emergencies.







[ Aspirin pronounced as (as' pir in) To use the sharing features on this page, please enable JavaScript. Why is this medication prescribed? How should this medicine be used? Other uses for this medicine What special precautions should I follow? What special dietary instructions should I follow? What should I do if I forget a dose? What side effects can this medication cause? What should I know about storage and disposal of this medication? In case of emergency/overdose What other information should I know? Brand names Other names Why is this medication prescribed? Prescription aspirin is used to relieve the symptoms of rheumatoid arthritis (arthritis caused by swelling of the lining of the joints), osteoarthritis (arthritis caused by breakdown of the lining of the joints), systemic lupus erythematosus (condition in which the immune system attacks the joints and organs and causes pain and swelling) and certain other rheumatologic conditions (conditions in which the immune system attacks parts of the body). Nonprescription aspirin is used to reduce fever and to relieve mild to moderate pain from headaches, menstrual periods, arthritis, toothaches, and muscle aches. Nonprescription aspirin is also used to prevent heart attacks in people who have had a heart attack in the past or who have angina (chest pain that occurs when the heart does not get enough oxygen). Nonprescription aspirin is also used to reduce the risk of death in people who are experiencing or who have recently experienced a heart attack. Nonprescription aspirin is also used to prevent ischemic strokes (strokes that occur when a blood clot blocks the flow of blood to the brain) or mini-strokes (strokes that occur when the flow of blood to the brain is blocked for a short time) in people who have had this type of stroke or mini-stroke in the past. Aspirin will not prevent hemorrhagic strokes (strokes caused by bleeding in the brain). Aspirin is in a group of medications called salicylates. It works by stopping the production of certain natural substances that cause fever, pain, swelling, and blood clots. Aspirin is also available in combination with other medications such as antacids, pain relievers, and cough and cold medications. This monograph only includes information about the use of aspirin alone. If you are taking a combination product, read the information on the package or prescription label or ask your doctor or pharmacist for more information. How should this medicine be used? Prescription aspirin comes as an extended-release (long-acting) tablet. Nonprescription aspirin comes as a regular tablet, a delayed-release (releases the medication in the intestine to prevent damage to the stomach) tablet, a chewable tablet, powder, and a gum to take by mouth. Prescription aspirin is usually taken two or more times a day. Nonprescription aspirin is usually taken once a day to lower the risk of a heart attack or stroke. Nonprescription aspirin is usually taken every 4 to 6 hours as needed to treat fever or pain. Follow the directions on the package or prescription label carefully, and ask your doctor or pharmacist to explain any part you do not understand. Take aspirin exactly as directed. Do not take more or less of it or take it more often than directed by the package label or prescribed by your doctor. Swallow the extended-release tablets whole with a full glass of water. Do not break, crush, or chew them. Swallow the delayed-release tablets with a full glass of water. Chewable aspirin tablets may be chewed, crushed, or swallowed whole. Drink a full glass of water, immediately after taking these tablets. Ask a doctor before you give aspirin to your child or teenager. Aspirin may cause Reye's syndrome (a serious condition in which fat builds up on the brain, liver, and other body organs) in children and teenagers, especially if they have a virus such as chicken pox or the flu. If you have had oral surgery or surgery to remove your tonsils in the last 7 days, talk to your doctor about which types of aspirin are safe for you. Delayed-release tablets begin to work some time after they are taken. Do not take delayed-release tablets for fever or pain that must be relieved quickly. Stop taking aspirin and call your doctor if your fever lasts longer than 3 days, if your pain lasts longer than 10 days, or if the part of your body that was painful becomes red or swollen. You may have a condition that must be treated by a doctor. Other uses for this medicine Aspirin is also sometimes used to treat rheumatic fever (a serious condition that may develop after a strep throat infection and may cause swelling of the heart valves) and Kawasaki disease (an illness that may cause heart problems in children). Aspirin is also sometimes used to lower the risk of blood clots in patients who have artificial heart valves or certain other heart conditions and to prevent certain complications of pregnancy. What special precautions should I follow? Before taking aspirin, tell your doctor and pharmacist if you are allergic to aspirin, other medications for pain or fever, tartrazine dye, or any other medications. tell your doctor and pharmacist what prescription and nonprescription medications, vitamins, nutritional supplements, and herbal products you are taking or plan to take. Be sure to mention any of the following: acetazolamide (Diamox); angiotensin-converting enzyme (ACE) inhibitors such as benazepril (Lotensin), captopril (Capoten), enalapril (Vasotec), fosinopril (Monopril), lisinopril (Prinivil, Zestril), moexipril (Univasc), perindopril, (Aceon), quinapril (Accupril), ramipril (Altace), and trandolapril (Mavik); anticoagulants ('blood thinners') such as warfarin (Coumadin) and heparin; beta blockers such as atenolol (Tenormin), labetalol (Normodyne), metoprolol (Lopressor, Toprol XL), nadolol (Corgard), and propranolol (Inderal); diuretics ('water pills'); medications for diabetes or arthritis; medications for gout such as probenecid and sulfinpyrazone (Anturane); methotrexate (Trexall); other nonsteroidal anti-inflammatory drugs (NSAIDs) such as naproxen (Aleve, Naprosyn); phenytoin (Dilantin); and valproic acid (Depakene, Depakote). Your doctor may need to change the doses of your medications or monitor you more carefully for side effects. if you are taking aspirin on a regular basis to prevent heart attack or stroke, do not take ibuprofen (Advil, Motrin) to treat pain or fever without talking to your doctor. Your doctor will probably tell you to allow some time to pass between taking your daily dose of aspirin and taking a dose of ibuprofen. tell your doctor if you have or have ever had asthma, frequent stuffed or runny nose, or nasal polyps (growths on the linings of the nose). If you have these conditions, there is a risk that you will have an allergic reaction to aspirin. Your doctor may tell you that you should not take aspirin. tell your doctor if you often have heartburn, upset stomach, or stomach pain and if you have or have ever had ulcers, anemia, bleeding problems such as hemophilia, or kidney or liver disease. tell your doctor if you are pregnant, you plan to become pregnant, or if you are breast-feeding. Low dose aspirin 81-mg may be taken during pregnancy, but aspirin doses greater that 81 mg may harm the fetus and cause problems with delivery if it is taken around 20 weeks or later during pregnancy. Do not take aspirin doses greater that 81 mg (e.g., 325 mg) around or after 20 weeks of pregnancy, unless told to do so by your doctor. If you become pregnant while taking aspirin or aspirin containing medications, call your doctor. if you are having surgery, including dental surgery, tell the doctor or dentist that you are taking aspirin. if you drink three or more alcoholic drinks every day, ask your doctor if you should take aspirin or other medications for pain and fever. What special dietary instructions should I follow? Unless your doctor tells you otherwise, continue your normal diet. What should I do if I forget a dose? If your doctor has told you to take aspirin on a regular basis and you miss a dose, take the missed dose as soon as you remember it. However, if it is almost time for the next dose, skip the missed dose and continue your regular dosing schedule. Do not take a double dose to make up for a missed one. What side effects can this medication cause? Aspirin may cause side effects. Tell your doctor if any of these symptoms are severe or do not go away: nausea vomiting stomach pain heartburn Some side effects can be serious. If you experience any of the following symptoms, call your doctor immediately: hives rash swelling of the eyes, face, lips, tongue, or throat wheezing or difficulty breathing hoarseness fast heartbeat fast breathing cold, clammy skin ringing in the ears loss of hearing bloody vomit vomit that looks like coffee grounds bright red blood in stools black or tarry stools Aspirin may cause other side effects. Call your doctor if you experience any unusual problems while you are taking this medication. If you experience a serious side effect, you or your doctor may send a report to the Food and Drug Administration's (FDA) MedWatch Adverse Event Reporting program online ( http://www.fda.gov/Safety/MedWatch ) or by phone (1-800-332-1088). What should I know about storage and disposal of this medication? Keep this medication in the container it came in, tightly closed, and out of reach of children. Store it at room temperature and away from excess heat and moisture (not in the bathroom). Dispose of any tablets that have a strong vinegar smell. It is important to keep all medication out of sight and reach of children as many containers (such as weekly pill minders and those for eye drops, creams, patches, and inhalers) are not child-resistant and young children can open them easily. To protect young children from poisoning, always lock safety caps and immediately place the medication in a safe location – one that is up and away and out of their sight and reach. http://www.upandaway.org Unneeded medications should be disposed of in special ways to ensure that pets, children, and other people cannot consume them. However, you should not flush this medication down the toilet. Instead, the best way to dispose of your medication is through a medicine take-back program. Talk to your pharmacist or contact your local garbage/recycling department to learn about take-back programs in your community. See the FDA's Safe Disposal of Medicines website ( http://goo.gl/c4Rm4p ) for more information if you do not have access to a take-back program. In case of emergency/overdose In case of overdose, call the poison control helpline at 1-800-222-1222. Information is also available online at https://www.poisonhelp.org/help . If the victim has collapsed, had a seizure, has trouble breathing, or can't be awakened, immediately call emergency services at 911. Symptoms of overdose may include: burning pain in the throat or stomach vomiting decreased urination fever restlessness irritability talking a lot and saying things that do not make sense fear or nervousness dizziness double vision uncontrollable shaking of a part of the body confusion abnormally excited mood hallucination (seeing things or hearing voices that are not there) seizures drowsiness loss of consciousness for a period of time What other information should I know? Keep all appointments with your doctor. If you are taking prescription aspirin, do not let anyone else take your medication. Ask your pharmacist any questions you have about refilling your prescription. It is important for you to keep a written list of all of the prescription and nonprescription (over-the-counter) medicines you are taking, as well as any products such as vitamins, minerals, or other dietary supplements. You should bring this list with you each time you visit a doctor or if you are admitted to a hospital. It is also important information to carry with you in case of emergencies. Brand names Acuprin ® Anacin ® Aspirin Regimen Ascriptin ® Aspergum ® Aspidrox ® Aspir-Mox ® Aspirtab ® Aspir-trin ® Bayer ® Aspirin Bufferin ® Buffex ® Easprin ® Ecotrin ® Empirin ® Entaprin ® Entercote ® Fasprin ® Genacote ® Gennin-FC ® Genprin ® Halfprin ® Magnaprin ® Miniprin ® Minitabs ® Ridiprin ® Sloprin ® Uni-Buff ® Uni-Tren ® Valomag ® Zorprin ®









[ Candesartan pronounced as (kan des ar' tan) To use the sharing features on this page, please enable JavaScript. Why is this medication prescribed? How should this medicine be used? Other uses for this medicine What special precautions should I follow? What special dietary instructions should I follow? What should I do if I forget a dose? What side effects can this medication cause? What should I know about storage and disposal of this medication? In case of emergency/overdose What other information should I know? Brand names IMPORTANT WARNING: Tell your doctor if you are pregnant or plan to become pregnant. Do not take candesartan if you are pregnant. If you become pregnant while you are taking candesartan, stop taking candesartan and call your doctor immediately. Candesartan may cause death or serious injury to the fetus when taken in the last 6 months of pregnancy. Why is this medication prescribed? Candesartan is used alone or in combination with other medications to treat high blood pressure. Candesartan is also used alone or in combination with other medications to treat congestive heart failure (a condition when your heart can not pump enough blood to the other parts of the body). Candesartan is in a class of medications called angiotensin II receptor antagonists. It works by blocking the action of certain natural substances that tighten the blood vessels, allowing the blood to flow more smoothly and the heart to pump more efficiently. High blood pressure is a common condition, and when not treated it can cause damage to the brain, heart, blood vessels, kidneys, and other parts of the body. Damage to these organs may cause heart disease, a heart attack, heart failure, stroke, kidney failure, loss of vision, and other problems. In addition to taking medication, making lifestyle changes will also help to control your blood pressure. These changes include eating a diet that is low in fat and salt, maintaining a healthy weight, exercising at least 30 minutes most days, not smoking, and using alcohol in moderation. How should this medicine be used? Candesartan comes as a tablet to take by mouth. It is usually taken once or twice a day with or without food. To help you remember to take candesartan, take it at around the same time(s) every day. Follow the directions on your prescription label carefully, and ask your doctor or pharmacist to explain any part you do not understand. Take candesartan exactly as directed. Do not take more or less of it or take it more often than prescribed by your doctor. Your doctor will probably start you on a low dose of candesartan and gradually increase your dose not more than once every 2 weeks. Candesartan controls high blood pressure but does not cure it. Your blood pressure may decrease during the first 2 weeks of your treatment, but it may take 4 to 6 weeks for you to notice the full benefit of candesartan. Continue to take candesartan even if you feel well. Do not stop taking candesartan without talking to your doctor. Other uses for this medicine Candesartan is also sometimes used to treat diabetic nephropathy (kidney disease in people with diabetes and high blood pressure). Talk to your doctor about the risks of using this medication for your condition. This medication may be prescribed for other uses; ask your doctor or pharmacist for more information. What special precautions should I follow? Before taking candesartan, tell your doctor and pharmacist if you are allergic to candesartan, any other medications, or any of the ingredients in candesartan tablets. Ask your pharmacist for a list of the ingredients. tell your doctor if you have diabetes (high blood sugar) and you are taking aliskiren (Tekturna, in Amturnide, Tekamlo, Tekturna HCT). Your doctor will probably tell you not to take candesartan if you have diabetes and you are also taking aliskiren. tell your doctor and pharmacist what other prescription and nonprescription medications, vitamins, nutritional supplements, and herbal products you are taking or plan to take while taking candesartan. Your doctor may need to change the doses of your medications or monitor you carefully for side effects. The following nonprescription products may interact with candesartan: aspirin and other nonsteroidal anti-inflammatory medications (NSAIDs) such as ibuprofen (Advil, Motrin) and naproxen (Aleve, Naprosyn); potassium supplements. Be sure to let your doctor and pharmacist know that you are taking these medications before you start taking candesartan. Do not start any of these medications while taking candesartan without discussing with your healthcare provider. tell your doctor if you have or have ever had heart, kidney, or liver disease. tell your doctor if you are breastfeeding. if you are having surgery, including dental surgery, tell the doctor or dentist that you are taking candesartan. you should know that candesartan may cause dizziness, lightheadedness, and fainting when you get up too quickly from a lying position. This is more common when you first start taking candesartan. To help avoid this problem, get out of bed slowly, resting your feet on the floor for a few minutes before standing up. you should know that diarrhea, vomiting, not drinking enough fluids, and sweating a lot can cause a drop in blood pressure, which may cause lightheadedness and fainting. Tell your doctor if you have any of these problems or develop them during your treatment. What special dietary instructions should I follow? Do not use salt substitutes containing potassium without talking to your doctor. If your doctor prescribes a low-salt or low-sodium diet, follow these directions carefully. What should I do if I forget a dose? Take the missed dose as soon as you remember it. However, if it is almost time for the next dose, skip the missed dose and continue your regular dosing schedule. Do not take a double dose to make up for a missed one. What side effects can this medication cause? Candesartan may cause side effects. Tell your doctor if any of these symptoms are severe or do not go away: headache back pain sore throat Some side effects can be serious. If you experience any of these symptoms or those listed in the SPECIAL PRECAUTIONS section, call your doctor immediately: swelling of the face, throat, tongue, lips, eyes, hands, feet, ankles, or lower legs hoarseness difficulty breathing or swallowing decreased urination Candesartan may cause other side effects. Call your doctor if you have any unusual problems while taking this medication. If you experience a serious side effect, you or your doctor may send a report to the Food and Drug Administration's (FDA) MedWatch Adverse Event Reporting program online ( http://www.fda.gov/Safety/MedWatch ) or by phone (1-800-332-1088). What should I know about storage and disposal of this medication? Keep this medication in the container it came in, tightly closed, and out of reach of children. Store it at room temperature and away from excess heat and moisture (not in the bathroom). Unneeded medications should be disposed of in special ways to ensure that pets, children, and other people cannot consume them. However, you should not flush this medication down the toilet. Instead, the best way to dispose of your medication is through a medicine take-back program. Talk to your pharmacist or contact your local garbage/recycling department to learn about take-back programs in your community. See the FDA's Safe Disposal of Medicines website ( http://goo.gl/c4Rm4p ) for more information if you do not have access to a take-back program. It is important to keep all medication out of sight and reach of children as many containers (such as weekly pill minders and those for eye drops, creams, patches, and inhalers) are not child-resistant and young children can open them easily. To protect young children from poisoning, always lock safety caps and immediately place the medication in a safe location – one that is up and away and out of their sight and reach. http://www.upandaway.org In case of emergency/overdose In case of overdose, call the poison control helpline at 1-800-222-1222. Information is also available online at https://www.poisonhelp.org/help . If the victim has collapsed, had a seizure, has trouble breathing, or can't be awakened, immediately call emergency services at 911. Symptoms of overdose may include the following: dizziness fainting fast or slow heart beat What other information should I know? Keep all appointments with your doctor and the laboratory. Your blood pressure should be checked regularly to determine your response to candesartan. Do not let anyone else take your medication. Ask your pharmacist any questions you have about refilling your prescription. It is important for you to keep a written list of all of the prescription and nonprescription (over-the-counter) medicines you are taking, as well as any products such as vitamins, minerals, or other dietary supplements. You should bring this list with you each time you visit a doctor or if you are admitted to a hospital. It is also important information to carry with you in case of emergencies. Brand names Atacand ®

[ Candesartan pronounced as (kan des ar' tan) To use the sharing features on this page, please enable JavaScript. Why is this medication prescribed? How should this medicine be used? Other uses for this medicine What special precautions should I follow? What special dietary instructions should I follow? What should I do if I forget a dose? What side effects can this medication cause? What should I know about storage and disposal of this medication? In case of emergency/overdose What other information should I know? Brand names IMPORTANT WARNING: Tell your doctor if you are pregnant or plan to become pregnant. Do not take candesartan if you are pregnant. If you become pregnant while you are taking candesartan, stop taking candesartan and call your doctor immediately. Candesartan may cause death or serious injury to the fetus when taken in the last 6 months of pregnancy. Why is this medication prescribed? Candesartan is used alone or in combination with other medications to treat high blood pressure. Candesartan is also used alone or in combination with other medications to treat congestive heart failure (a condition when your heart can not pump enough blood to the other parts of the body). Candesartan is in a class of medications called angiotensin II receptor antagonists. It works by blocking the action of certain natural substances that tighten the blood vessels, allowing the blood to flow more smoothly and the heart to pump more efficiently. High blood pressure is a common condition, and when not treated it can cause damage to the brain, heart, blood vessels, kidneys, and other parts of the body. Damage to these organs may cause heart disease, a heart attack, heart failure, stroke, kidney failure, loss of vision, and other problems. In addition to taking medication, making lifestyle changes will also help to control your blood pressure. These changes include eating a diet that is low in fat and salt, maintaining a healthy weight, exercising at least 30 minutes most days, not smoking, and using alcohol in moderation. How should this medicine be used? Candesartan comes as a tablet to take by mouth. It is usually taken once or twice a day with or without food. To help you remember to take candesartan, take it at around the same time(s) every day. Follow the directions on your prescription label carefully, and ask your doctor or pharmacist to explain any part you do not understand. Take candesartan exactly as directed. Do not take more or less of it or take it more often than prescribed by your doctor. Your doctor will probably start you on a low dose of candesartan and gradually increase your dose not more than once every 2 weeks. Candesartan controls high blood pressure but does not cure it. Your blood pressure may decrease during the first 2 weeks of your treatment, but it may take 4 to 6 weeks for you to notice the full benefit of candesartan. Continue to take candesartan even if you feel well. Do not stop taking candesartan without talking to your doctor. Other uses for this medicine Candesartan is also sometimes used to treat diabetic nephropathy (kidney disease in people with diabetes and high blood pressure). Talk to your doctor about the risks of using this medication for your condition. This medication may be prescribed for other uses; ask your doctor or pharmacist for more information. What special precautions should I follow? Before taking candesartan, tell your doctor and pharmacist if you are allergic to candesartan, any other medications, or any of the ingredients in candesartan tablets. Ask your pharmacist for a list of the ingredients. tell your doctor if you have diabetes (high blood sugar) and you are taking aliskiren (Tekturna, in Amturnide, Tekamlo, Tekturna HCT). Your doctor will probably tell you not to take candesartan if you have diabetes and you are also taking aliskiren. tell your doctor and pharmacist what other prescription and nonprescription medications, vitamins, nutritional supplements, and herbal products you are taking or plan to take while taking candesartan. Your doctor may need to change the doses of your medications or monitor you carefully for side effects. The following nonprescription products may interact with candesartan: aspirin and other nonsteroidal anti-inflammatory medications (NSAIDs) such as ibuprofen (Advil, Motrin) and naproxen (Aleve, Naprosyn); potassium supplements. Be sure to let your doctor and pharmacist know that you are taking these medications before you start taking candesartan. Do not start any of these medications while taking candesartan without discussing with your healthcare provider. tell your doctor if you have or have ever had heart, kidney, or liver disease. tell your doctor if you are breastfeeding. if you are having surgery, including dental surgery, tell the doctor or dentist that you are taking candesartan. you should know that candesartan may cause dizziness, lightheadedness, and fainting when you get up too quickly from a lying position. This is more common when you first start taking candesartan. To help avoid this problem, get out of bed slowly, resting your feet on the floor for a few minutes before standing up. you should know that diarrhea, vomiting, not drinking enough fluids, and sweating a lot can cause a drop in blood pressure, which may cause lightheadedness and fainting. Tell your doctor if you have any of these problems or develop them during your treatment. What special dietary instructions should I follow? Do not use salt substitutes containing potassium without talking to your doctor. If your doctor prescribes a low-salt or low-sodium diet, follow these directions carefully. What should I do if I forget a dose? Take the missed dose as soon as you remember it. However, if it is almost time for the next dose, skip the missed dose and continue your regular dosing schedule. Do not take a double dose to make up for a missed one. What side effects can this medication cause? Candesartan may cause side effects. Tell your doctor if any of these symptoms are severe or do not go away: headache back pain sore throat Some side effects can be serious. If you experience any of these symptoms or those listed in the SPECIAL PRECAUTIONS section, call your doctor immediately: swelling of the face, throat, tongue, lips, eyes, hands, feet, ankles, or lower legs hoarseness difficulty breathing or swallowing decreased urination Candesartan may cause other side effects. Call your doctor if you have any unusual problems while taking this medication. If you experience a serious side effect, you or your doctor may send a report to the Food and Drug Administration's (FDA) MedWatch Adverse Event Reporting program online ( http://www.fda.gov/Safety/MedWatch ) or by phone (1-800-332-1088). What should I know about storage and disposal of this medication? Keep this medication in the container it came in, tightly closed, and out of reach of children. Store it at room temperature and away from excess heat and moisture (not in the bathroom). Unneeded medications should be disposed of in special ways to ensure that pets, children, and other people cannot consume them. However, you should not flush this medication down the toilet. Instead, the best way to dispose of your medication is through a medicine take-back program. Talk to your pharmacist or contact your local garbage/recycling department to learn about take-back programs in your community. See the FDA's Safe Disposal of Medicines website ( http://goo.gl/c4Rm4p ) for more information if you do not have access to a take-back program. It is important to keep all medication out of sight and reach of children as many containers (such as weekly pill minders and those for eye drops, creams, patches, and inhalers) are not child-resistant and young children can open them easily. To protect young children from poisoning, always lock safety caps and immediately place the medication in a safe location – one that is up and away and out of their sight and reach. http://www.upandaway.org In case of emergency/overdose In case of overdose, call the poison control helpline at 1-800-222-1222. Information is also available online at https://www.poisonhelp.org/help . If the victim has collapsed, had a seizure, has trouble breathing, or can't be awakened, immediately call emergency services at 911. Symptoms of overdose may include the following: dizziness fainting fast or slow heart beat What other information should I know? Keep all appointments with your doctor and the laboratory. Your blood pressure should be checked regularly to determine your response to candesartan. Do not let anyone else take your medication. Ask your pharmacist any questions you have about refilling your prescription. It is important for you to keep a written list of all of the prescription and nonprescription (over-the-counter) medicines you are taking, as well as any products such as vitamins, minerals, or other dietary supplements. You should bring this list with you each time you visit a doctor or if you are admitted to a hospital. It is also important information to carry with you in case of emergencies. Brand names Atacand ®







[ Risedronate pronounced as (ris ed' roe nate)  Risedronate tablets and delayed-release (long-acting tablets) are used to prevent and treat osteoporosis (a condition in which the bones become thin and weak and break easily) in women who have undergone menopause (''change of life,'' end of menstrual periods). Risedronate tablets are also used to treat osteoporosis in men, and in men and women who are taking glucocorticoids (a type of corticosteroid medication that may cause osteoporosis). Risedronate tablets are also used to treat Paget's disease of bone (a condition in which the bones are soft and weak and may be deformed, painful, or easily broken). Risedronate is in a class of medications called bisphosphonates. It works by preventing bone breakdown and increasing bone density (thickness). How should this medicine be used? Risedronate comes as a tablet and a delayed-release tablet to take by mouth. The delayed-release tablets are usually taken once a week in the morning, immediately after breakfast. The tablets are usually taken on an empty stomach once a day in the morning, once a week in the morning, once monthly in the morning, or once monthly for two mornings in a row depending on your condition and the dosage prescribed by your doctor. If you are taking risedronate once a week, once monthly, or once monthly for 2 days in a row, take it on the same day every week or month or the same 2 days in a row every month. Follow the directions on your prescription label carefully, and ask your doctor or pharmacist to explain any part you do not understand. Take risedronate exactly as directed. Do not take more or less of it or take it more often or for a longer period of time than prescribed by your doctor. Risedronate may not work properly and may damage the esophagus (tube that connects the mouth and stomach) or cause sores in the mouth if it is not taken according to the following instructions. Tell your doctor if you do not understand, you do not think you will remember, or you are unable to follow these instructions: You must take risedronate tablets immediately after you get out of bed in the morning and before you eat or drink anything. You must take risedronate delayed-release tablets immediately after breakfast. Never take risedronate at bedtime or before you wake up and get out of bed for the day. Swallow the tablets with a full glass (6 to 8 ounces [180 to 240 mL]) of plain water while you are sitting or standing. Swallow the delayed-release tablets with at least 4 ounces (120 mL) of plain water while you are sitting or standing. Never take risedronate with tea, coffee, juice, mineral water, milk, other dairy drinks, or any liquid other than plain water. Swallow the tablets and delayed-release tablets whole. Do not split, chew, or crush them. Do not suck on the tablets or hold them in your mouth for any length of time. After you take risedronate, do not eat, drink, or take any other medications for at least 30 minutes. Do not lie down for at least 30 minutes after you take risedronate. Sit upright or stand upright until at least 30 minutes have passed. Risedronate controls osteoporosis and Paget's disease of bone but does not cure these conditions. Risedronate helps to treat and prevent osteoporosis only as long as it is taken regularly. Continue to take risedronate even if you feel well. Do not stop taking risedronate without talking to your doctor, but talk to your doctor from time to time about whether you still need to take risedronate. Your doctor or pharmacist will give you the manufacturer's patient information sheet (Medication Guide) when you begin treatment with risedronate and each time you refill your prescription. Read the information carefully and ask your doctor or pharmacist if you have any questions. You can also visit the Food and Drug Administration (FDA) website ( http://www.fda.gov/Drugs/DrugSafety/ucm085729.htm ) or the manufacturer's website to obtain the Medication Guide. Other uses for this medicine This medication may be prescribed for other uses; ask your doctor or pharmacist for more information. What special precautions should I follow? Before taking risedronate, tell your doctor and pharmacist if you are allergic to risedronate, any other medications, or any of the ingredients in risedronate tablets or delayed-release tablets. Ask your pharmacist or check the Medication Guide for a list of the ingredients tell your doctor and pharmacist what prescription and nonprescription medications, vitamins, nutritional supplements, and herbal products you are taking or plan to take. Be sure to mention any of the following: angiogenesis inhibitors such as bevacizumab (Avastin), everolimus (Afinitor, Zortress), pazopanib (Votrient), sorafenib (Nexavar), or sunitinib (Sutent); aspirin and other nonsteroidal anti-inflammatory drugs (NSAIDs) such as ibuprofen (Advil, Ibu-Tab, Motrin, others) and naproxen (Aleve, Naprelan, Naprosyn, others); cancer chemotherapy; or oral steroids such as dexamethasone, methylprednisolone (Medrol), and prednisone (Rayos). If you are taking the delayed-release tablets, you should also tell your doctor if you are taking an H 2 blocker such as cimetidine, famotidine (Pepcid), nizatidine (Axid), and ranitidine (Zantac) or a proton pump inhibitor such as esomeprazole (Nexium, in Vimovo), lansoprazole (Prevacid), omeprazole (Prilosec, Zegerid), pantoprazole (Protonix), and rabeprazole (AcipHex). Your doctor may need to change the doses of your medications or monitor you carefully for side effects. you should know that Actonel and Atelvia both contain risedronate. You cannot take both of these medications at the same time. if you are taking any other oral medications including vitamins, supplements, or antacids, take them at least 30 minutes after you take risedronate. tell your doctor if you have or have ever had a low level of calcium in your blood or any problems with your esophagus and if you are unable to sit upright or stand upright for at least 30 minutes. Your doctor may tell you that you should not take risedronate. tell your doctor if you are undergoing radiation therapy; if you have or have ever had difficulty swallowing; heartburn; ulcers or other problems with your stomach; anemia (condition in which the red blood cells do not bring enough oxygen to all the parts of the body); cancer; any type of infection, especially in your mouth; problems with your mouth, teeth, or gums; any condition that stops your blood from clotting normally; or dental or kidney disease. tell your doctor if you are pregnant or are breastfeeding. Also tell your doctor if you plan to become pregnant at any time in the future, because risedronate may remain in your body for years after you stop taking it. Call your doctor if you become pregnant during or after your treatment with risedronate. you should know that risedronate may cause severe bone, muscle, or joint pain. You may begin to feel this pain within days, months, or years after you first take risedronate. Although this type of pain may begin after you have taken risedronate for some time, it is important for you and your doctor to realize that it may be caused by risedronate. Call your doctor right away if you experience severe pain at any time during your treatment with risedronate. Your doctor may tell you to stop taking risedronate and your pain may go away after you stop taking the medication. you should know that risedronate may cause osteonecrosis of the jaw (ONJ, a serious condition of the jaw bone), especially if you have dental surgery or treatment while you are taking the medication. A dentist should examine your teeth and perform any needed treatments, including cleaning or fixing ill-fitted dentures, before you start to take risedronate. Be sure to brush your teeth and clean your mouth properly while you are taking risedronate. Talk to your doctor before having any dental treatments while you are taking this medication. talk to your doctor about other things you can do to prevent osteoporosis from developing or worsening. Your doctor will probably tell you to avoid smoking and drinking large amounts of alcohol and to follow a regular program of weight-bearing exercise. What special dietary instructions should I follow? You should eat plenty of foods that are rich in calcium and vitamin D while you are taking risedronate. Your doctor will tell you which foods are good sources of these nutrients and how many servings you need each day. If you find it difficult to eat enough of these foods, tell your doctor. In that case, your doctor can prescribe or recommend a supplement. What should I do if I forget a dose? If you miss a dose of once-daily risedronate, do not take it later in the day. Skip the missed dose and take one dose the next morning as usual. If you miss a dose of once-weekly risedronate, do not take it later in the day. Take one dose the morning after you remember. Then return to taking one dose once each week on your regularly scheduled day. If you miss a dose of once-monthly risedronate but remember more than 7 days before your next scheduled dose, take the missed dose the morning after you remember. If you remember less than 7 days before your next scheduled dose, do not take the missed dose. Instead, wait until the morning of your next scheduled dose and then take risedronate as usual. If you miss one or both doses of the two days in a row, once-monthly risedronate but remember more than 7 days before your next scheduled dose, you can take the missed doses. Take the first missed dose the morning after you remember and if you missed both doses, take the second missed dose the morning after you take the first one. If you remember less than 7 days before your next scheduled dose, do not take the missed dose(s). Instead, wait until the morning of your next scheduled dose and then take risedronate as usual. If you miss doses of risedronate and do not know what to do, call your doctor. Always take risedronate first thing in the morning. Never take a double dose to make up for a missed one, and never take more than one dose in one day. What side effects can this medication cause? Risedronate may cause side effects. Tell your doctor if any of these symptoms are severe or do not go away: nausea burping dry mouth stomach pain diarrhea constipation gas headache dizziness weakness leg cramps back pain frequent or urgent need to urinate painful urination Some side effects can be serious. If you experience any of the following side effects, call your doctor immediately before you take any more risedronate: difficulty swallowing or pain when swallowing new or worsening heartburn chest pain itching rash hives blisters on skin swelling of the face, throat, tongue, lips, eyes, hands, feet, ankles, or lower legs difficulty breathing hoarseness muscle spasms, twitching, or cramps numbness or tingling around mouth or in hands or feet swollen, red, or painful eyes sensitivity to light painful or swollen gums loosening of the teeth numbness or heavy feeling in the jaw poor healing of the jaw dull, aching pain in the hips, groin, or thighs Risedronate may cause other side effects. Call your doctor if you have any unusual problems while taking this medication. Taking a bisphosphonate medication such as risedronate for osteoporosis may increase the risk that you will break your thigh bone(s). You may feel pain in your hips, groin, or thighs for several weeks or months before the bone(s) break, and you may find that one or both of your thigh bones have broken even though you have not fallen or experienced other trauma. It is unusual for the thigh bone to break in healthy people, but people who have osteoporosis may break this bone even if they do not take risedronate. Talk to your doctor about the risks of taking risedronate. If you experience a serious side effect, you or your doctor may send a report to the Food and Drug Administration's (FDA) MedWatch Adverse Event Reporting program online ( http://www.fda.gov/Safety/MedWatch ) or by phone (1-800-332-1088). What should I know about storage and disposal of this medication? Keep this medication in the container it came in, tightly closed, and out of reach of children. Store it at room temperature and away from excess heat and moisture (not in the bathroom). Unneeded medications should be disposed of in special ways to ensure that pets, children, and other people cannot consume them. However, you should not flush this medication down the toilet. Instead, the best way to dispose of your medication is through a medicine take-back program. Talk to your pharmacist or contact your local garbage/recycling department to learn about take-back programs in your community. See the FDA's Safe Disposal of Medicines website ( http://goo.gl/c4Rm4p ) for more information if you do not have access to a take-back program. It is important to keep all medication out of sight and reach of children as many containers (such as weekly pill minders and those for eye drops, creams, patches, and inhalers) are not child-resistant and young children can open them easily. To protect young children from poisoning, always lock safety caps and immediately place the medication in a safe location – one that is up and away and out of their sight and reach. http://www.upandaway.org In case of emergency/overdose In case of overdose, give the victim a full glass of milk and call your local poison control center at 1-800-222-1222. If the victim has collapsed or is not breathing, call local emergency services at 911. Symptoms of overdose may include the following: numbness or tingling around mouth or in hands or feet muscle spasms, cramps, or twitches seizures What other information should I know? Keep all appointments with your doctor and the laboratory. Before having any laboratory test or bone imaging study, tell your doctor and the laboratory personnel that you are taking risedronate. Do not let anyone else take your medication. Ask your pharmacist any questions you have about refilling your prescription. It is important for you to keep a written list of all of the prescription and nonprescription (over-the-counter) medicines you are taking, as well as any products such as vitamins, minerals, or other dietary supplements. You should bring this list with you each time you visit a doctor or if you are admitted to a hospital. It is also important information to carry with you in case of emergencies. Brand names Actonel ® Atelvia

[ Atenolol pronounced as (a ten' oh lole)  Atenolol is used alone or in combination with other medications to treat high blood pressure. It also is used to prevent angina (chest pain) and improve survival after a heart attack. Atenolol is in a class of medications called beta blockers. It works by relaxing blood vessels and slowing heart rate to improve blood flow and decrease blood pressure. High blood pressure is a common condition and when not treated, can cause damage to the brain, heart, blood vessels, kidneys and other parts of the body. Damage to these organs may cause heart disease, a heart attack, heart failure, stroke, kidney failure, loss of vision, and other problems. In addition to taking medication, making lifestyle changes will also help to control your blood pressure. These changes include eating a diet that is low in fat and salt, maintaining a healthy weight, exercising at least 30 minutes most days, not smoking, and using alcohol in moderation. How should this medicine be used? Atenolol comes as a tablet to take by mouth. For the treatment of high blood pressure and to prevent angina, it is usually taken once a day. To improve survival after a heart attack, it is usually taken once or twice a day. To help you remember to take atenolol, take it around the same time(s) every day. Follow the directions on your prescription label carefully, and ask your doctor or pharmacist to explain any part you do not understand. Take atenolol exactly as directed. Do not take more or less of it or take it more often than prescribed by your doctor. Your doctor will probably start you on a low dose of atenolol and gradually increase your dose to allow your body to adjust to the medication. Talk to your doctor about how you feel and about any symptoms you experience during this time. Atenolol controls high blood pressure and angina but does not cure them. It may take 1-2 weeks before you feel the full benefit of atenolol. Continue to take atenolol even if you feel well. Do not stop taking atenolol without talking to your doctor. If you suddenly stop taking atenolol, you may experience serious heart problems such as angina (chest pain), heart attack, or an irregular heartbeat. Your doctor will probably want to decrease your dose gradually. Your doctor will watch you carefully and will probably tell you to avoid physical activity during this time. Other uses for this medicine Atenolol is also used sometimes to prevent migraine headaches and to treat alcohol withdrawal, heart failure, and irregular heartbeat. Talk to your doctor about the possible risks of using this medication for your condition. This medication may be prescribed for other uses; ask your doctor or pharmacist for more information. What special precautions should I follow? Before taking atenolol, tell your doctor and pharmacist if you are allergic to atenolol, any other medications, or any of the ingredients in atenolol tablets. Ask your pharmacist for a list of the ingredients. tell your doctor and pharmacist what prescription and nonprescription medications, vitamins, nutritional supplements, and herbal products you are taking while you are taking atenolol. Your doctor may need to change the doses of your medications or monitor you carefully for side effects. tell your doctor if you have a slow or irregular heart rate or heart failure. Your doctor may tell you not to take atenolol. tell your doctor if you have or have ever had asthma or other lung diseases; diabetes; hyperthyroidism (an overactive thyroid gland); pheochromocytoma (a tumor that develops on a gland near the kidneys and may cause high blood pressure and fast heartbeat); circulation problems; or heart or kidney disease. Also tell your doctor if you have ever had a serious allergic reaction to a food or any other substance. tell your doctor if you are pregnant, plan to become pregnant, or are breast-feeding. If you become pregnant while taking atenolol, call your doctor immediately. if you are having surgery, including dental surgery, tell the doctor or dentist that you are taking atenolol. you should know that atenolol may cause dizziness, lightheadedness, and fainting when you get up too quickly from a lying position. This is more common when you first start taking atenolol. To avoid this problem, get out of bed slowly, resting your feet on the floor for a few minutes before standing up. you should know that atenolol may increase the risk of hypoglycemia (low blood sugar) and prevent the warning signs and symptoms that would tell you that your blood sugar is low. Let your doctor know if you are unable to eat or drink normally or are vomiting while you are taking atenolol. You should know the symptoms of low blood sugar and what to do if you have these symptoms. you should know that if you have allergic reactions to different substances, your reactions may be worse while you are taking atenolol, and your allergic reactions may not respond to the usual doses of injectable epinephrine. What special dietary instructions should I follow? Unless your doctor tells you otherwise, continue your normal diet. What should I do if I forget a dose? Take the missed dose as soon as you remember it. However, if it is almost time for the next dose, skip the missed dose and continue your regular dosing schedule. Do not take a double dose to make up for a missed one. What side effects can this medication cause? Atenolol may cause side effects. Tell your doctor if any of these symptoms are severe or do not go away: dizziness lightheadedness tiredness lack of energy drowsiness depression nausea diarrhea rash Some side effects can be serious. The following symptoms are uncommon, but if you experience any of them, call your doctor immediately: shortness of breath wheezing swelling of the hands, feet, ankles, or lower legs unusual weight gain fainting rapid, pounding, or irregular heartbeat dry eyes Atenolol may cause other side effects. Call your doctor if you have any unusual problems while taking this medication. If you experience a serious side effect, you or your doctor may send a report to the Food and Drug Administration's (FDA) MedWatch Adverse Event Reporting program online ( http://www.fda.gov/Safety/MedWatch ) or by phone (1-800-332-1088). What should I know about storage and disposal of this medication? Keep this medication in the container it came in, tightly closed, and out of reach of children. Store it at room temperature and away from excess heat and moisture (not in the bathroom). It is important to keep all medication out of sight and reach of children as many containers (such as weekly pill minders and those for eye drops, creams, patches, and inhalers) are not child-resistant and young children can open them easily. To protect young children from poisoning, always lock safety caps and immediately place the medication in a safe location – one that is up and away and out of their sight and reach. http://www.upandaway.org Unneeded medications should be disposed of in special ways to ensure that pets, children, and other people cannot consume them. However, you should not flush this medication down the toilet. Instead, the best way to dispose of your medication is through a medicine take-back program. Talk to your pharmacist or contact your local garbage/recycling department to learn about take-back programs in your community. See the FDA's Safe Disposal of Medicines website ( http://goo.gl/c4Rm4p ) for more information if you do not have access to a take-back program. In case of emergency/overdose In case of overdose, call the poison control helpline at 1-800-222-1222. Information is also available online at https://www.poisonhelp.org/help . If the victim has collapsed, had a seizure, has trouble breathing, or can't be awakened, immediately call emergency services at 911. Symptoms of overdose may include: lack of energy difficulty breathing wheezing slow heartbeat fainting swelling of the hands, feet, ankles, or lower legs unusual weight gain shakiness dizziness rapid heartbeat sweating or confusion blurred vision headache numbness or tingling of the mouth weakness excessive tiredness pale color sudden hunger What other information should I know? Keep all appointments with your doctor. Your blood pressure should be checked regularly to determine your response to atenolol. Your doctor may ask you to check your pulse (heart rate). Ask your pharmacist or doctor to teach you how to take your pulse. If your pulse is faster or slower than it should be, call your doctor. Do not let anyone else take your medication. Ask your pharmacist any questions you have about refilling your prescription. It is important for you to keep a written list of all of the prescription and nonprescription (over-the-counter) medicines you are taking, as well as any products such as vitamins, minerals, or other dietary supplements. You should bring this list with you each time you visit a doctor or if you are admitted to a hospital. It is also important information to carry with you in case of emergencies. Brand names Tenormin ®











[ Atorvastatin pronounced as (a tore' va sta tin) To use the sharing features on this page, please enable JavaScript. Why is this medication prescribed? How should this medicine be used? Other uses for this medicine What special precautions should I follow? What special dietary instructions should I follow? What should I do if I forget a dose? What side effects can this medication cause? What should I know about storage and disposal of this medication? In case of emergency/overdose What other information should I know? Brand names Notice: [Posted 07/20/2021] AUDIENCE: Patient, Health Professional, OBGYN, Cardiology, Endocrinology, Pharmacy ISSUE: The FDA is requesting revisions to the information about use in pregnancy in the prescribing information of the entire class of statin medicines. These changes include removing the contraindication against using these medicines in all pregnant patients. A contraindication is FDA's strongest warning and is only added when a medicine should not be used because the risk clearly outweighs any possible benefit. Because the benefits of statins may include prevention of serious or potentially fatal events in a small group of very high-risk pregnant patients, contraindicating these drugs in all pregnant women is not appropriate. FDA expects removing the contraindication will enable health care professionals and patients to make individual decisions about benefit and risk, especially for those at very high risk of heart attack or stroke. This includes patients with homozygous familial hypercholesterolemia and those who have previously had a heart attack or stroke. BACKGROUND: Statins are a class of prescription medicines that have been used for decades to lower low-density lipoprotein (LDL-C or "bad") cholesterol in the blood. Medicines in the statin class include atorvastatin, fluvastatin, lovastatin, pitavastatin, pravastatin, rosuvastatin, and simvastatin. RECOMMENDATIONS: Patients: Patients taking statins should notify their health care professionals if they become pregnant or suspect they are pregnant. Your health care professional will be able to advise whether you should stop taking the medicine during pregnancy and whether you may stop your statin temporarily while breastfeeding. Patients who are at high risk of heart attack or stroke who require statins after giving birth should not breastfeed and should use alternatives such as infant formula. Health Care Professionals : Health care professionals should discontinue statin therapy in most pregnant patients, or they can consider the ongoing therapeutic needs of the individual patient, particularly those at very high risk for cardiovascular events during pregnancy. Because of the chronic nature of cardiovascular disease, treatment of hyperlipidemia is not generally necessary during pregnancy. Discuss with patients whether they may discontinue statins temporarily while breastfeeding. Advise those who require a statin because of their cardiovascular risk that breastfeeding is not recommended because the medicine may pass into breast milk The FDA hopes the revised language in the prescribing information will help reassure health care professionals that statins are safe to prescribe in patients who can become pregnant, and help them reassure patients with unintended statin exposure in early pregnancy or before pregnancy is recognized that the medicine is unlikely to harm the unborn baby. For more information visit the FDA website at: http://www.fda.gov/Safety/MedWatch/SafetyInformation and http://www.fda.gov/Drugs/DrugSafety . Why is this medication prescribed? Atorvastatin is used together with diet, weight loss, and exercise to reduce the risk of heart attack and stroke and to decrease the chance that heart surgery will be needed in people who have heart disease or who are at risk of developing heart disease. Atorvastatin is also used to decrease the amount of fatty substances such as low-density lipoprotein (LDL) cholesterol ('bad cholesterol') and triglycerides in the blood and to increase the amount of high-density lipoprotein (HDL) cholesterol ('good cholesterol') in the blood. Atorvastatin may also be used to decrease the amount of cholesterol and other fatty substances in the blood in children and teenagers 10 to 17 years of age who have familial heterozygous hypercholesterolemia (an inherited condition in which cholesterol cannot be removed from the body normally). Atorvastatin is in a class of medications called HMG-CoA reductase inhibitors (statins). It works by slowing the production of cholesterol in the body to decrease the amount of cholesterol that may build up on the walls of the arteries and block blood flow to the heart, brain, and other parts of the body. Accumulation of cholesterol and fats along the walls of your arteries (a process known as atherosclerosis) decreases blood flow and, therefore, the oxygen supply to your heart, brain, and other parts of your body. Lowering your blood level of cholesterol and fats with atorvastatin has been shown to prevent heart disease, angina (chest pain), strokes, and heart attacks. How should this medicine be used? Atorvastatin comes as a tablet to take by mouth. It is usually taken once a day with or without food. Take atorvastatin at around the same time every day. Follow the directions on your prescription label carefully, and ask your doctor or pharmacist to explain any part you do not understand. Take atorvastatin exactly as directed. Do not take more or less of it or take it more often than prescribed by your doctor. Your doctor may start you on a low dose of atorvastatin and gradually increase your dose, not more than once every 2 to 4 weeks. Continue to take atorvastatin even if you feel well. Do not stop taking atorvastatin without talking to your doctor. Other uses for this medicine This medication may be prescribed for other uses; ask your doctor or pharmacist for more information. What special precautions should I follow? Before taking atorvastatin, tell your doctor and pharmacist if you are allergic to atorvastatin, any other medications, or any of the ingredients in atorvastatin tablets. Ask your pharmacist for a list of the ingredients. Tell your doctor and pharmacist what prescription and nonprescription medications, vitamins, nutritional supplements, and herbal products you are taking or plan to take while taking atorvastatin. Your doctor may need to change the doses of your medications or monitor you carefully for side effects. The following nonprescription products may interact with atorvastatin: cimetidine (Tagamet), and niacin. Be sure to let your doctor and pharmacist know that you are taking these medications before you start taking atorvastatin. Do not start any of these medications while taking atorvastatin without discussing with your healthcare provider. tell your doctor if you have liver disease. Your doctor will order laboratory tests to see how well your liver is working even if you do not think you have liver disease. Your doctor will probably tell you not to take atorvastatin if you have or have had liver disease or if the tests show you may be developing liver disease. tell your doctor if you drink more than 2 alcoholic beverages daily, if you are 65 years of age or older, if you have ever had liver disease, and if you have or have ever had muscle aches or weakness; diabetes, seizures, low blood pressure, or thyroid or kidney disease. tell your doctor if you are pregnant or plan to become pregnant. You should not become pregnant while you are taking atorvastatin. Talk to your doctor about birth control methods that you can use during your treatment. If you become pregnant while taking atorvastatin, stop taking atorvastatin and call your doctor immediately. Atorvastatin may harm the fetus. do not breast-feed while you are taking this medication. if you are having surgery, including dental surgery, tell the doctor or dentist that you are taking atorvastatin. If you are hospitalized due to serious injury or infection, tell the doctor who treats you that you are taking atorvastatin. ask your doctor about the safe use of alcoholic beverages while you are taking atorvastatin. Alcohol can increase the risk of serious side effects. What special dietary instructions should I follow? Eat a low-fat, low-cholesterol diet. Be sure to follow all exercise and dietary recommendations made by your doctor or dietitian. You can also visit the National Cholesterol Education Program (NCEP) website for additional dietary information at http://www.nhlbi.nih.gov/health/public/heart/chol/chol_tlc.pdf . Avoid drinking large amounts [more than 1.2 liter (approximately 1 quart) per day] of grapefruit juice while taking atorvastatin. What should I do if I forget a dose? Take the missed dose as soon as you remember it. However, if it is less than 12 hours until your next scheduled dose, skip the missed dose and continue your regular dosing schedule. Do not take a double dose to make up for a missed one. What side effects can this medication cause? Atorvastatin may cause side effects. Tell your doctor if any of these symptoms are severe or do not go away: diarrhea heartburn gas joint pain forgetfulness or memory loss confusion Some side effects can be serious. The following symptoms are uncommon, but if you experience any of them, call your doctor or get emergency medical help immediately: muscle pain, tenderness, or weakness lack of energy fever chest pain nausea extreme tiredness weakness unusual bleeding or bruising loss of appetite pain in the upper right part of the stomach flu-like symptoms dark colored urine yellowing of the skin or eyes rash hives itching difficulty breathing or swallowing swelling of the face, throat, tongue, lips, eyes, hands, feet, ankles, or lower legs hoarseness Atorvastatin may cause other side effects. Call your doctor if you have any unusual problems while taking this medication. If you experience a serious side effect, you or your doctor may send a report to the Food and Drug Administration's (FDA) MedWatch Adverse Event Reporting program online ( http://www.fda.gov/Safety/MedWatch ) or by phone (1-800-332-1088). What should I know about storage and disposal of this medication? Keep this medication in the container it came in, tightly closed, and out of reach of children. Store it at room temperature and away from excess heat and moisture (not in the bathroom). Unneeded medications should be disposed of in special ways to ensure that pets, children, and other people cannot consume them. However, you should not flush this medication down the toilet. Instead, the best way to dispose of your medication is through a medicine take-back program. Talk to your pharmacist or contact your local garbage/recycling department to learn about take-back programs in your community. See the FDA's Safe Disposal of Medicines website ( http://goo.gl/c4Rm4p ) for more information if you do not have access to a take-back program. It is important to keep all medication out of sight and reach of children as many containers (such as weekly pill minders and those for eye drops, creams, patches, and inhalers) are not child-resistant and young children can open them easily. To protect young children from poisoning, always lock safety caps and immediately place the medication in a safe location – one that is up and away and out of their sight and reach. http://www.upandaway.org In case of emergency/overdose In case of overdose, call the poison control helpline at 1-800-222-1222. Information is also available online at https://www.poisonhelp.org/help . If the victim has collapsed, had a seizure, has trouble breathing, or can't be awakened, immediately call emergency services at 911. What other information should I know? Keep all appointments with your doctor and the laboratory. Your doctor may order certain lab tests during your treatment , especially if you develop symptoms of liver damage. Before having any laboratory test, tell your doctor and the laboratory personnel that you are taking atorvastatin. Do not let anyone else take your medication. Ask your pharmacist any questions you have about refilling your prescription. It is important for you to keep a written list of all of the prescription and nonprescription (over-the-counter) medicines you are taking, as well as any products such as vitamins, minerals, or other dietary supplements. You should bring this list with you each time you visit a doctor or if you are admitted to a hospital. It is also important information to carry with you in case of emergencies. Brand names Lipitor ®





[ Tretinoin Topical pronounced as (tret' i noyn) To use the sharing features on this page, please enable JavaScript. Why is this medication prescribed? How should this medicine be used? Other uses for this medicine What special precautions should I follow? What should I do if I forget a dose? What side effects can this medication cause? What should I know about storage and disposal of this medication? In case of emergency/overdose What other information should I know? Brand names Other names Why is this medication prescribed? Tretinoin (Altreno, Atralin, Avita, Retin-A) is used to treat acne. Tretinoin is also used to reduce fine wrinkles (Refissa and Renova) and to improve spotty discoloration (Renova) and rough feeling skin (Renova) when used along with other skin care and sunlight avoidance programs. Tretinoin is in a class of medications called retinoids. It works by promoting peeling of affected skin areas and unclogging pores. How should this medicine be used? Tretinoin comes as a lotion (Altreno), cream (Avita, Refissa, Renova, Retin-A), and gel (Atralin, Avita, Retin-A). Tretinoin usually is used daily at bedtime. Follow the directions on your prescription label carefully, and ask your doctor or pharmacist to explain any part you do not understand. Use tretinoin exactly as directed. Do not use more or less of it or use it more often than prescribed by your doctor. Tretinoin controls acne but does not cure it. Your acne probably will get worse (red, scaling skin and an increase in acne sores) during the first 7 to10 days that you use this medication. Nevertheless, continue to use it; the acne sores should disappear. Usually 2 to 3 weeks (and sometimes more than 6 weeks) of regular use of tretinoin is required before improvement is seen. Tretinoin may reduce fine wrinkles, spotty discoloration, and rough feeling skin but does not cure them. It may take 3 to 4 months or up to 6 months before you notice improvement. If you stop using tretinoin, the improvement may gradually disappear. Use only nonmedicated cosmetics on cleansed skin. Do not use topical preparations with a lot of alcohol, menthol, spices, or lime (e.g., shaving lotions, astringents, and perfumes); they can sting your skin, especially when you first use tretinoin. Do not use any other topical medications, especially benzoyl peroxide, hair removers, salicylic acid (wart remover), and dandruff shampoos containing sulfur or resorcinol unless your doctor directs you to do so. If you have used any of these topical medications recently, ask your doctor if you should wait before using tretinoin. Your doctor may tell you to use moisturizer to help with dryness. If you are to apply any form of tretinoin, follow these steps: Wash your hands and affected skin area thoroughly with mild, bland soap (not medicated or abrasive soap or soap that dries the skin) and water. To be sure that your skin is thoroughly dry, wait 20 to 30 minutes before applying tretinoin. Use clean fingertips to apply the medication. Use enough medication to cover the affected area with a thin layer. Apply the medication to the affected skin area only. Do not let tretinoin get into your eyes, ears, mouth, corners along your nose, or vaginal area. Do not apply on areas of sunburn. Ask your pharmacist or doctor for a copy of the manufacturer's information for the patient. Other uses for this medicine This medication may be prescribed for other uses; ask your doctor or pharmacist for more information. What special precautions should I follow? Before using tretinoin, tell your doctor and pharmacist if you are allergic to tretinoin, fish (if taking Altreno), any other medications, or any of the ingredients in tretinoin lotion, cream, or gel. Ask your pharmacist for a list of the ingredients.. tell your doctor and pharmacist what prescription and nonprescription medications, vitamins, nutritional supplements, and herbal products you are taking or plan to take. Be sure to mention any of the following: certain antibiotics such as tetracyclines; antihistamines; diuretics ('water pills'); fluoroquinolones such as ciprofloxacin (Cipro), delafloxacin (Baxdela), gemifloxacin (Factive), levofloxacin (Levaquin), moxifloxacin (Avelox), and ofloxacin; medications for mental illness and nausea; or sulfonamides such as co-trimoxazole (Bactrim, Septra), sulfadiazine, sulfamethizole (Urobiotic), and sulfisoxazole (Gantrisin). Your doctor may need to change the doses of your medications or monitor you carefully for side effects. tell your doctor if you have or have ever had eczema (a skin disease), actinic keratoses (scaly spots or patches on the top layer of the skin), skin cancer, or other skin conditions. tell your doctor if you are pregnant, plan to become pregnant, or are breastfeeding. If you become pregnant while using tretinoin, call your doctor. plan to avoid unnecessary or prolonged exposure to sunlight or ultraviolet light (tanning beds and sunlamps) and to wear protective clothing, sunglasses, and sunscreen. Tretinoin may make your skin sensitive to sunlight or ultraviolet light. you should know that weather extremes, such as wind and cold, may be particularly irritating. What should I do if I forget a dose? Apply the missed dose as soon as you remember it. However, if it is almost time for the next dose, skip the missed dose and continue your regular dosing schedule. Do not apply extra cream, lotion, or gel to make up for a missed dose. What side effects can this medication cause? Tretinoin may cause side effects. Tell your doctor if any of these symptoms are severe or do not go away: warmth or slight stinging of the skin lightening or darkening of the skin red, scaling skin increase in acne sores swelling, blistering, or crusting of the skin dryness, pain, burning, stinging, peeling, redness, or flaky skin at the treatment area Some side effects can be serious. If you experience any of these symptoms call your doctor immediately: itching hives pain or discomfort at the treatment area Tretinoin may cause other side effects. Call your doctor if you have any unusual problems while using this medication. If you experience a serious side effect, you or your doctor may send a report to the Food and Drug Administration's (FDA) MedWatch Adverse Event Reporting program online ( http://www.fda.gov/Safety/MedWatch ) or by phone (1-800-332-1088). What should I know about storage and disposal of this medication? Keep this medication in the container it came in, tightly closed, and out of reach of children. Store it at room temperature and away from excess heat and moisture (not in the bathroom). Do not allow the medication to freeze. Unneeded medications should be disposed of in special ways to ensure that pets, children, and other people cannot consume them. However, you should not flush this medication down the toilet. Instead, the best way to dispose of your medication is through a medicine take-back program. Talk to your pharmacist or contact your local garbage/recycling department to learn about take-back programs in your community. See the FDA's Safe Disposal of Medicines website ( http://goo.gl/c4Rm4p ) for more information if you do not have access to a take-back program. It is important to keep all medication out of sight and reach of children as many containers (such as weekly pill minders and those for eye drops, creams, patches, and inhalers) are not child-resistant and young children can open them easily. To protect young children from poisoning, always lock safety caps and immediately place the medication in a safe location – one that is up and away and out of their sight and reach. http://www.upandaway.org In case of emergency/overdose If someone swallows tretinoin, call your local poison control center at 1-800-222-1222. If the victim has collapsed or is not breathing, call local emergency services at 911. What other information should I know? Keep all appointments with your doctor. Do not let anyone else use your medication. Ask your pharmacist any questions you have about refilling your prescription. It is important for you to keep a written list of all of the prescription and nonprescription (over-the-counter) medicines you are taking, as well as any products such as vitamins, minerals, or other dietary supplements. You should bring this list with you each time you visit a doctor or if you are admitted to a hospital. It is also important information to carry with you in case of emergencies. Brand names Altinac ® ¶ Altreno ® Atralin ® Avita ® Refissa ® Renova ® Retin-A ® Tretin X ® ¶



[ Efavirenz pronounced as (e fa veer' ens)  Efavirenz is used along with other medications to treat human immunodeficiency virus (HIV) infection. Efavirenz is in a class of medications called non-nucleoside reverse transcriptase inhibitors (NNRTIs). It works by decreasing the amount of HIV in the blood. Although efavirenz does not cure HIV, it may decrease your chance of developing acquired immunodeficiency syndrome (AIDS) and HIV-related illnesses such as serious infections or cancer. Taking these medications along with practicing safer sex and making other life-style changes may decrease the risk of transmitting (spreading) the HIV virus to other people. How should this medicine be used? Efavirenz comes as a capsule and as a tablet to take by mouth. It is usually taken once a day with plenty of water on an empty stomach (at least 1 hour before or 2 hours after a meal). Take efavirenz at around the same time every day. Taking efavirenz at bedtime may make certain side effects less bothersome. Follow the directions on your prescription label carefully, and ask your doctor or pharmacist to explain any part you do not understand. Take efavirenz exactly as directed. Do not take more or less of it or take it more often than prescribed by your doctor. Swallow the tablets and capsules whole; do not split, chew, or crush them. If you are not able to swallow the medication whole, you can still take efavirenz by mixing the contents of the capsule with soft food and eating. To prepare each dose, open the capsule and sprinkle the contents onto 1-2 teaspoons of soft food in a small container. You can use soft foods such as applesauce, grape jelly, or yogurt. While sprinkling, be careful not to spill the contents of the capsule, or spread it in the air. Mix the medicine with the soft food. The mixture should look grainy but should not be lumpy. You must eat the medicine and soft food mixture within 30 minutes of mixing. When you are finished, add another 2 teaspoons of soft food to the empty container, stir, and eat to be sure that you have received the full dose of medication. Do not eat for the next 2 hours. If efavirenz is being given to a baby who can not yet eat solid foods, the contents of the capsule can be mixed with 2 teaspoons of room temperature infant formula in a small container. While emptying the capsule, be careful not to spill the contents, or spread it in the air. The mixture should look grainy but should not be lumpy. The mixture should be syringe fed to the baby within 30 minutes of mixing. When finished, add an additional 2 teaspoons of infant formula to the empty container, stir, and syringe feed to the baby to be sure that you have given the full dose of medication. Do not give the medication to the baby in a bottle. Do not feed the baby for the next 2 hours. Efavirenz controls HIV infection, but does not cure it. Continue to take efavirenz even if you feel well. Do not stop taking efavirenz without talking to your doctor. When your supply of efavirenz starts to run low, get more from your doctor or pharmacist. If you miss doses or stop taking efavirenz, your condition may become more difficult to treat. Other uses for this medicine Efavirenz is also used with other medications to help prevent infection in healthcare workers or other people who were accidentally exposed to HIV. Talk to your doctor about the possible risks of using this medication for your condition. This medication may be prescribed for other uses; ask your doctor or pharmacist for more information. What special precautions should I follow? Before taking efavirenz, tell your doctor and pharmacist if you are allergic to efavirenz any other medications, or if you are allergic to any of the ingredients in efavirenz capsules or tablets. Ask your doctor or pharmacist for a list of the ingredients. you should know that efavirenz is also available in combination with another medication with the brand name of Atripla. Tell your doctor if you are taking this medication to be sure you do not receive the same medication twice. tell your doctor if you are taking elbasvir and grazoprevir (Zepatier). Your doctor will probably tell you not to take efavirenz if you are taking this medication. tell your doctor and pharmacist what other prescription and nonprescription medications, vitamins, and nutritional supplements you are taking or plan to take. Be sure to mention any of the following: antidepressants, artemether and lumefantrine (Coartem), atazanavir (Reyataz), atorvastatin (Lipitor, in Caduet), atovaquone and proguanil, bupropion (Wellbutrin, Zyban, others, in Contrave), carbamazepine (Carbatrol, Epitol, Equetro, Tegretol, Teril), clarithromycin (Biaxin, in Prevpac), cyclosporine (Gengraf, Neoral, Sandimmune), delavirdine (Rescriptor), diltiazem (Cardizem CD, Cartia XT, Diltzac, Taztia XT), ethinyl estradiol and norgestimate (Estarylla, Ortho-Tri-Cyclen, Sprintec, others), etravirine (Intelence), etonogestrel (Implanon, Nexplanon, Nuvaring), felodipine, fosamprenavir (Lexiva), itraconazole (Sporanox), indinavir (Crixivan), levonorgestrel (Mirena, Plan B one step, Skyla, in Climera Pro, Seasonale, others), lopinavir (in Kaletra), maraviroc (Selzentry), medications for anxiety, medications for mental illness, medications for seizures, methadone (Dolophine, Methadose), nevirapine (Viramune), nicardipine (Cardene), nifedipine (Adalat, Afeditab, Procardia XL), norelgestromin (in Xulane), phenobarbital, phenytoin (Dilantin, Phenytek), posaconazole (Noxafil), pravastatin (Pravachol), rifabutin (Mycobutin), rifampin (Rifadin, Rimactane, in Rifamate, Rifater), rilpivirine (Edurant, in Complera, Odefsey), ritonavir (Norvir, in Kaletra, Technivie, Viekira), saquinavir (Invirase), sedatives, sertraline (Zoloft), simeprevir (Olysio), simvastatin (Zocor, in Vytorin), sirolimus (Rapamune), sleeping pills, tacrolimus (Envarsus XR, Prograf), tranquilizers, verapamil (Calan, Covera, Verelan, in Tarka), voriconazole (Vfend), and warfarin (Coumadin, Jantoven). Your doctor may need to change the doses of your medications or monitor you carefully for side effects. Many other medications may also interact with efavirenz, or may increase the risk that you will develop an irregular heartbeat, so be sure to tell your doctor about all the medications you are taking, even those that do not appear on this list. tell your doctor what herbal products you are taking, especially St. John's wort. tell your doctor if you have or have ever had prolonged QT interval (a rare heart problem that may cause fainting or irregular heartbeat), irregular heartbeat, other heart problems, have ever drunk large amounts of alcohol, used street drugs, or over-used prescription medications. Also tell your doctor if you have or have ever had depression or other mental illness, seizures, hepatitis (a viral infection of the liver) or any other liver disease disease. tell your doctor if you are pregnant or plan to become pregnant. You should not become pregnant during your treatment and for 12 weeks after your final dose. If you can become pregnant, you will have to have a negative pregnancy test before you begin taking this medication and use effective birth control during your treatment. Efavirenz may decrease the effectiveness of hormonal contraceptives (birth control pills, patches, rings, implants, or injections), so you should not use these as your only method of birth control during your treatment. You must use a barrier method of birth control (device that blocks sperm from entering the uterus such as a condom or a diaphragm) along with any other method of birth control you have chosen. Ask your doctor to help you choose a method of birth control that will work for you. If you become pregnant while taking efavirenz, call your doctor. you should not breast-feed if you are infected with HIV or are taking efavirenz. you should know that efavirenz may make you drowsy, dizzy, or unable to concentrate. Do not drive a car or operate machinery until you know how this medication affects you. ask your doctor about the safe use of alcoholic beverages while you are taking efavirenz. Alcohol can make the side effects from efavirenz worse. you should know that while you are taking medications to treat HIV infection, your immune system may get stronger and begin to fight other infections that were already in your body or cause other conditions to occur. This may cause you to develop symptoms of those infections or conditions. If you have new or worsening symptoms during your treatment with efavirenz, be sure to tell your doctor. you should know that your body fat may increase or move to different areas of your body such as your breasts and upper back, neck (''buffalo hump''), and around your stomach. You may notice a loss of body fat from your face, legs, and arms. you should know that efavirenz may cause changes in your thoughts, behavior, or mental health. Call your doctor immediately if you develop any of the following symptoms while you are taking efavirenz: depression, thinking about killing yourself or planning or trying to do so, angry or aggressive behavior, hallucinations (seeing things or hearing voices that do not exist), loss of touch with reality, or other strange thoughts. Be sure your family knows which symptoms may be serious so that they can call your doctor if you are unable to seek treatment on your own. you should know that efavirenz may cause potentially serious nervous system problems, including encephalopathy (a serious and potentially fatal disorder of the brain) months or years after you first take efavirenz. Although nervous system problems may begin after you have taken efavirenz for some time, it is important for you and your doctor to realize that they may be caused by efavirenz. Call your doctor right away if you experience problems with balance or coordination, confusion, memory problems, and other difficulties caused by abnormal brain function, at any time during your treatment with efavirenz. Your doctor may tell you to stop taking efavirenz. What special dietary instructions should I follow? Talk to your doctor about eating grapefruit and drinking grapefruit juice while taking this medication. What should I do if I forget a dose? Take the missed dose as soon as you remember it. However, if it is almost time for the next dose, skip the missed dose and continue your regular dosing schedule. Do not take a double dose to make up for a missed one. What side effects can this medication cause? Efavirenz may cause side effects. Tell your doctor if any of these symptoms are severe or do not go away: nausea vomiting stomach pain diarrhea indigestion headache confusion forgetfulness feeling anxious, nervous, or agitated abnormally happy mood difficulty falling asleep or staying asleep unusual dreams pain Some side effects can be serious. If you experience any of the following symptoms or those mentioned in the SPECIAL PRECAUTIONS section, call your doctor immediately: fever rash itching peeling, blistering, or shedding skin mouth sores pink eye swelling of your face fainting irregular heartbeat extreme tiredness lack of energy loss of appetite pain in the upper right part of the stomach unusual bleeding or bruising yellowing of the skin or eyes flu-like symptoms seizures Efavirenz may cause other side effects. Call your doctor if you have any unusual problems while taking this medication. If you experience a serious side effect, you or your doctor may send a report to the Food and Drug Administration's (FDA) MedWatch Adverse Event Reporting program online ( http://www.fda.gov/Safety/MedWatch ) or by phone (1-800-332-1088). What should I know about storage and disposal of this medication? Keep this medication in the container it came in, tightly closed, and out of reach of children. Store it at room temperature and away from excess heat and moisture (not in the bathroom). It is important to keep all medication out of sight and reach of children as many containers (such as weekly pill minders and those for eye drops, creams, patches, and inhalers) are not child-resistant and young children can open them easily. To protect young children from poisoning, always lock safety caps and immediately place the medication in a safe location – one that is up and away and out of their sight and reach. http://www.upandaway.org Unneeded medications should be disposed of in special ways to ensure that pets, children, and other people cannot consume them. However, you should not flush this medication down the toilet. Instead, the best way to dispose of your medication is through a medicine take-back program. Talk to your pharmacist or contact your local garbage/recycling department to learn about take-back programs in your community. See the FDA's Safe Disposal of Medicines website ( http://goo.gl/c4Rm4p ) for more information if you do not have access to a take-back program. In case of emergency/overdose In case of overdose, call the poison control helpline at 1-800-222-1222. Information is also available online at https://www.poisonhelp.org/help . If the victim has collapsed, had a seizure, has trouble breathing, or can't be awakened, immediately call emergency services at 911. Symptoms of overdose may include: movements of your body that you cannot control dizziness headache difficulty concentrating nervousness confusion forgetfulness difficulty falling asleep or staying asleep unusual dreams drowsiness hallucinations (seeing things or hearing voices that do not exist) abnormally happy mood strange thoughts What other information should I know? Keep all appointments with your doctor and the laboratory. Your doctor may order certain lab tests to check your body's response to efavirenz. Before having any laboratory test, tell your doctor and the laboratory personnel that you are taking efavirenz. Do not let anyone else take your medication. Ask your pharmacist any questions you have about refilling your prescription. It is important for you to keep a written list of all of the prescription and nonprescription (over-the-counter) medicines you are taking, as well as any products such as vitamins, minerals, or other dietary supplements. You should bring this list with you each time you visit a doctor or if you are admitted to a hospital. It is also important information to carry with you in case of emergencies. Brand names Sustiva ®

[ Chlorpheniramine pronounced as (klor fen ir' a meen)  Chlorpheniramine relieves red, itchy, watery eyes; sneezing; itchy nose or throat; and runny nose caused by allergies, hay fever, and the common cold. Chlorpheniramine helps control the symptoms of cold or allergies but will not treat the cause of the symptoms or speed recovery. Chlorpheniramine is in a class of medications called antihistamines. It works by blocking the action of histamine, a substance in the body that causes allergic symptoms. How should this medicine be used? Chlorpheniramine comes as a tablet, a capsule, an extended-release (long-acting) tablet and capsule, a chewable tablet, and a liquid to take by mouth. The regular capsules and tablets, chewable tablets, and liquid are usually taken every 4 to 6 hours as needed. The extended-release (long-acting) tablets and capsules are usually taken twice a day in the morning and evening as needed. Follow the directions on your prescription label carefully, and ask your doctor or pharmacist to explain any part you do not understand. Take chlorpheniramine exactly as directed. Do not take more or less of it or take it more often than prescribed by your doctor. Chlorpheniramine comes alone and in combination with fever and pain reducers, expectorants, cough suppressants, and decongestants. Ask your doctor or pharmacist for advice on which product is best for your symptoms. Check nonprescription cough and cold product labels carefully before using 2 or more products at the same time. These products may contain the same active ingredient(s) and taking them together could cause you to receive an overdose.This is especially important if you will be giving cough and cold medications to a child. Nonprescription cough and cold combination products, including products that contain chlorpheniramine, can cause serious side effects or death in young children. Do not give these products to children younger than 4 years of age. If you give these products to children 4-11 years of age, use caution and follow the package directions carefully. If you are giving chlorpheniramine or a combination product that contains chlorpheniramine to a child, read the package label carefully to be sure that it is the right product for a child of that age. Do not give chlorpheniramine products that are made for adults to children. Before you give a chlorpheniramine product to a child, check the package label to find out how much medication the child should receive. Give the dose that matches the child's age on the chart. Ask the child's doctor if you don't know how much medication to give the child. If you are taking the liquid, do not use a household spoon to measure your dose. Use the measuring spoon or cup that came with the medication or use a spoon made especially for measuring medication. If you are using the extended-release tablets or capsules, swallow them whole. Do not break, crush, chew, or open them. Other uses for this medicine This medication is sometimes prescribed for other uses; ask your doctor or pharmacist for more information. What special precautions should I follow? Before taking chlorpheniramine, tell your doctor and pharmacist if you are allergic to chlorpheniramine, any other medications, or any of the ingredients in the chlorpheniramine product you plan to use. Check the package label for a list of the ingredients. tell your doctor and pharmacist what prescription and nonprescription medications, vitamins, nutritional supplements, and herbal products you are taking or plan to take. Be sure to mention any of the following: other medications for colds, hay fever, or allergies; medications for anxiety, depression, or seizures; muscle relaxants; narcotic medications for pain; sedatives; sleeping pills; and tranquilizers. tell your doctor if you have or have ever had asthma, emphysema, chronic bronchitis, or other types of lung disease; glaucoma (a condition in which increased pressure in the eye can lead to gradual loss of vision); ulcers; diabetes; difficulty urinating (due to an enlarged prostate gland); heart disease; high blood pressure; seizures; or an overactive thyroid gland. tell your doctor if you are pregnant, plan to become pregnant, or are breast-feeding. If you become pregnant while taking chlorpheniramine, call your doctor. if you are having surgery, including dental surgery, tell the doctor or dentist that you are taking chlorpheniramine. you should know that this medication may make you drowsy. Do not drive a car or operate machinery until you know how this medication affects you. ask your doctor about the safe use of alcohol while you are taking chlorpheniramine. Alcohol can make the side effects of chlorpheniramine worse. talk to your doctor about the risks and benefits of taking chlorpheniramine if you are 65 years of age or older. Older adults should not usually take chlorpheniramine because it is not as safe or effective as other medications that can be used to treat the same condition. What special dietary instructions should I follow? Unless your doctor tells you otherwise, continue your normal diet. What should I do if I forget a dose? Chlorpheniramine is usually taken as needed. If your doctor has told you to take chlorpheniramine regularly, take the missed dose as soon as you remember it. However, if it is almost time for the next dose, skip the missed dose and continue your regular dosing schedule. Do not take a double dose to make up for a missed one. What side effects can this medication cause? Chlorpheniramine may cause side effects. Tell your doctor if any of these symptoms are severe or do not go away: drowsiness dry mouth, nose, and throat nausea vomiting loss of appetite constipation headache increased chest congestion Some side effects can be serious. If you experience any of the following symptoms, call your doctor immediately: vision problems difficulty urinating If you experience a serious side effect, you or your doctor may send a report to the Food and Drug Administration's (FDA) MedWatch Adverse Event Reporting program online ( http://www.fda.gov/Safety/MedWatch ) or by phone (1-800-332-1088). What should I know about storage and disposal of this medication? Keep this medication in the container it came in, tightly closed, and out of reach of children. Store it at room temperature and away from excess heat and moisture (not in the bathroom). It is important to keep all medication out of sight and reach of children as many containers (such as weekly pill minders and those for eye drops, creams, patches, and inhalers) are not child-resistant and young children can open them easily. To protect young children from poisoning, always lock safety caps and immediately place the medication in a safe location – one that is up and away and out of their sight and reach. http://www.upandaway.org Unneeded medications should be disposed of in special ways to ensure that pets, children, and other people cannot consume them. However, you should not flush this medication down the toilet. Instead, the best way to dispose of your medication is through a medicine take-back program. Talk to your pharmacist or contact your local garbage/recycling department to learn about take-back programs in your community. See the FDA's Safe Disposal of Medicines website ( http://goo.gl/c4Rm4p ) for more information if you do not have access to a take-back program. In case of emergency/overdose In case of overdose, call the poison control helpline at 1-800-222-1222. Information is also available online at https://www.poisonhelp.org/help . If the victim has collapsed, had a seizure, has trouble breathing, or can't be awakened, immediately call emergency services at 911. What other information should I know? Ask your pharmacist any questions you have about chlorpheniramine. It is important for you to keep a written list of all of the prescription and nonprescription (over-the-counter) medicines you are taking, as well as any products such as vitamins, minerals, or other dietary supplements. You should bring this list with you each time you visit a doctor or if you are admitted to a hospital. It is also important information to carry with you in case of emergencies. Brand names Aller-Chlor ® Aller-Chlor ® Syrup Chlo-Amine ® Chlor-Trimeton ® 12 Hour Allergy Chlor-Trimeton ® 4 Hour Allergy Chlor-Trimeton ® 8 Hour Allergy Chlor-Trimeton ® Allergy Syrup Polaramine ® Polaramine ® Repetabs ® Polaramine ® Syrup Teldrin ® Allergy















[ Amoxicillin and Clavulanic Acid pronounced as (a mox i sil' in) (klav' yoo lan ic) To use the sharing features on this page, please enable JavaScript. Why is this medication prescribed? How should this medicine be used? Other uses for this medicine What special precautions should I follow? What special dietary instructions should I follow? What should I do if I forget a dose? What side effects can this medication cause? What should I know about storage and disposal of this medication? In case of emergency/overdose What other information should I know? Why is this medication prescribed? The combination of amoxicillin and clavulanic acid is used to treat certain infections caused by bacteria, including infections of the ears, lungs, sinus, skin, and urinary tract. Amoxicillin is in a class of medications called penicillin-like antibiotics. It works by stopping the growth of bacteria. Clavulanic acid is in a class of medications called beta-lactamase inhibitors. It works by preventing bacteria from destroying amoxicillin. Antibiotics will not work for colds, flu, or other viral infections. Using antibiotics when they are not needed increases your risk of getting an infection later that resists antibiotic treatment. How should this medicine be used? The combination of amoxicillin and clavulanic acid comes as a tablet, a chewable tablet, an extended-release (long-acting) tablet, and a suspension (liquid) to take by mouth. The tablets, chewable tablets, and suspension are usually taken at the start of a meal every 8 hours (three times a day) or every 12 hours (twice a day). The extended-release tablets are usually taken with a meal or snack every 12 hours (twice a day). To help you remember to take amoxicillin and clavulanate, take it around the same times every day. Follow the directions on your prescription label carefully, and ask your doctor or pharmacist to explain any part you do not understand. Take amoxicillin and clavulanic acid exactly as directed. Do not take more or less of it or take it more often than prescribed by your doctor. Swallow the extended-release tablets whole; do not chew or crush them. Shake the liquid well before each use to mix the medication evenly. The chewable tablets should be chewed thoroughly before they are swallowed. The other tablets should be taken with a full glass of water. The 250 mg and 500 mg tablets of amoxicillin and clavulanic acid contain the same amount of clavulanic acid. Do not substitute two 250 mg tablets for one 500 mg tablet. The 250 mg regular tablet and the 250 mg chewable tablet contain different amounts of clavulanic acid. They also should not be substituted. Take amoxicillin and clavulanic acid until you finish the prescription, even if you feel better. If you stop taking amoxicillin and clavulanic too soon, or skip doses, your infection may not be completely treated and the bacteria may become resistant to antibiotics. Other uses for this medicine Amoxicillin and clavulanic acid also is used sometimes to treat certain sexually transmitted diseases (STD). Talk to your doctor about the possible risks of using this medication for your condition. This medication may be prescribed for other uses; ask your doctor or pharmacist for more information. What special precautions should I follow? Before taking amoxicillin and clavulanic acid, tell your doctor and pharmacist if you are allergic to amoxicillin (Amoxil, Trimox, Wymox), clavulanic acid, penicillin, cephalosporins, any other medications, or any of the ingredients in amoxicillin and clavulanic acid preparations. Ask your pharmacist for a list of the ingredients. tell your doctor and pharmacist what prescription and nonprescription medications, vitamins, nutritional supplements, and herbal products you are taking. Be sure to mention either of the following: allopurinol (Aloprim, Lopurin, Zyloprim) probenecid (Probalan), and warfarin (Coumadin, Jantoven). Your doctor may need to change the doses of your medications or monitor you carefully for side effects. tell your doctor if you have or have ever had kidney or liver disease, allergies, asthma, hay fever, hives, or mononucleosis. you should know that amoxicillin and clavulanic acid may decrease the effectiveness of oral contraceptives (birth control pills). Plan to use another form of birth control while taking amoxicillin and clavulanic acid. tell your doctor if you are pregnant, plan to become pregnant, or are breastfeeding. If you become pregnant while taking amoxicillin and clavulanic acid, call your doctor. What special dietary instructions should I follow? Unless your doctor tells you otherwise, continue your normal diet. What should I do if I forget a dose? Take the missed dose as soon as you remember it. However, if it is almost time for the next dose, skip the missed dose and continue your regular dosing schedule. Do not take a double dose to make up for a missed one. What side effects can this medication cause? Amoxicillin and clavulanic acid may cause side effects. Tell your doctor if any of these symptoms are severe or do not go away: diarrhea upset stomach vomiting mild skin rash Some side effects can be serious. If you experience any of the following symptoms, call your doctor immediately: severe skin rash itching hives difficulty breathing or swallowing wheezing vaginal itching and discharge yellowing of the skin or eyes Amoxicillin and clavulanic acid may cause other side effects. Call your doctor if you have any unusual problems while taking this medication. If you experience a serious side effect, you or your doctor may send a report to the Food and Drug Administration's (FDA) MedWatch Adverse Event Reporting program online ( http://www.fda.gov/Safety/MedWatch ) or by phone (1-800-332-1088). What should I know about storage and disposal of this medication? Keep this medication in the container it came in, tightly closed, and out of reach of children. Store the tablets at room temperature and away from excess heat and moisture (not in the bathroom). Keep liquid medication in the refrigerator, tightly closed, and dispose of any unused medication after 10 days. Do not freeze. It is important to keep all medication out of sight and reach of children as many containers (such as weekly pill minders and those for eye drops, creams, patches, and inhalers) are not child-resistant and young children can open them easily. To protect young children from poisoning, always lock safety caps and immediately place the medication in a safe location – one that is up and away and out of their sight and reach. http://www.upandaway.org Unneeded medications should be disposed of in special ways to ensure that pets, children, and other people cannot consume them. However, you should not flush this medication down the toilet. Instead, the best way to dispose of your medication is through a medicine take-back program. Talk to your pharmacist or contact your local garbage/recycling department to learn about take-back programs in your community. See the FDA's Safe Disposal of Medicines website ( http://goo.gl/c4Rm4p ) for more information if you do not have access to a take-back program. In case of emergency/overdose In case of overdose, call the poison control helpline at 1-800-222-1222. Information is also available online at https://www.poisonhelp.org/help . If the victim has collapsed, had a seizure, has trouble breathing, or can't be awakened, immediately call emergency services at 911. Symptoms of overdose may include the following: stomach pain vomiting diarrhea rash hyperactivity drowsiness What other information should I know? Keep all appointments with your doctor and the laboratory. Your doctor may order certain lab tests to check your body's response to amoxicillin and clavulanic acid. If you are diabetic, use Clinistix or TesTape (not Clinitest) to test your urine for sugar while taking this medication. Do not let anyone else take your medication. Your prescription is probably not refillable. If you still have symptoms of infection after you finish the amoxicillin and clavulanic acid, call your doctor. It is important for you to keep a written list of all of the prescription and nonprescription (over-the-counter) medicines you are taking, as well as any products such as vitamins, minerals, or other dietary supplements. You should bring this list with you each time you visit a doctor or if you are admitted to a hospital. It is also important information to carry with you in case of emergencies.

[ Amoxicillin and Clavulanic Acid pronounced as (a mox i sil' in) (klav' yoo lan ic) To use the sharing features on this page, please enable JavaScript. Why is this medication prescribed? How should this medicine be used? Other uses for this medicine What special precautions should I follow? What special dietary instructions should I follow? What should I do if I forget a dose? What side effects can this medication cause? What should I know about storage and disposal of this medication? In case of emergency/overdose What other information should I know? Why is this medication prescribed? The combination of amoxicillin and clavulanic acid is used to treat certain infections caused by bacteria, including infections of the ears, lungs, sinus, skin, and urinary tract. Amoxicillin is in a class of medications called penicillin-like antibiotics. It works by stopping the growth of bacteria. Clavulanic acid is in a class of medications called beta-lactamase inhibitors. It works by preventing bacteria from destroying amoxicillin. Antibiotics will not work for colds, flu, or other viral infections. Using antibiotics when they are not needed increases your risk of getting an infection later that resists antibiotic treatment. How should this medicine be used? The combination of amoxicillin and clavulanic acid comes as a tablet, a chewable tablet, an extended-release (long-acting) tablet, and a suspension (liquid) to take by mouth. The tablets, chewable tablets, and suspension are usually taken at the start of a meal every 8 hours (three times a day) or every 12 hours (twice a day). The extended-release tablets are usually taken with a meal or snack every 12 hours (twice a day). To help you remember to take amoxicillin and clavulanate, take it around the same times every day. Follow the directions on your prescription label carefully, and ask your doctor or pharmacist to explain any part you do not understand. Take amoxicillin and clavulanic acid exactly as directed. Do not take more or less of it or take it more often than prescribed by your doctor. Swallow the extended-release tablets whole; do not chew or crush them. Shake the liquid well before each use to mix the medication evenly. The chewable tablets should be chewed thoroughly before they are swallowed. The other tablets should be taken with a full glass of water. The 250 mg and 500 mg tablets of amoxicillin and clavulanic acid contain the same amount of clavulanic acid. Do not substitute two 250 mg tablets for one 500 mg tablet. The 250 mg regular tablet and the 250 mg chewable tablet contain different amounts of clavulanic acid. They also should not be substituted. Take amoxicillin and clavulanic acid until you finish the prescription, even if you feel better. If you stop taking amoxicillin and clavulanic too soon, or skip doses, your infection may not be completely treated and the bacteria may become resistant to antibiotics. Other uses for this medicine Amoxicillin and clavulanic acid also is used sometimes to treat certain sexually transmitted diseases (STD). Talk to your doctor about the possible risks of using this medication for your condition. This medication may be prescribed for other uses; ask your doctor or pharmacist for more information. What special precautions should I follow? Before taking amoxicillin and clavulanic acid, tell your doctor and pharmacist if you are allergic to amoxicillin (Amoxil, Trimox, Wymox), clavulanic acid, penicillin, cephalosporins, any other medications, or any of the ingredients in amoxicillin and clavulanic acid preparations. Ask your pharmacist for a list of the ingredients. tell your doctor and pharmacist what prescription and nonprescription medications, vitamins, nutritional supplements, and herbal products you are taking. Be sure to mention either of the following: allopurinol (Aloprim, Lopurin, Zyloprim) probenecid (Probalan), and warfarin (Coumadin, Jantoven). Your doctor may need to change the doses of your medications or monitor you carefully for side effects. tell your doctor if you have or have ever had kidney or liver disease, allergies, asthma, hay fever, hives, or mononucleosis. you should know that amoxicillin and clavulanic acid may decrease the effectiveness of oral contraceptives (birth control pills). Plan to use another form of birth control while taking amoxicillin and clavulanic acid. tell your doctor if you are pregnant, plan to become pregnant, or are breastfeeding. If you become pregnant while taking amoxicillin and clavulanic acid, call your doctor. What special dietary instructions should I follow? Unless your doctor tells you otherwise, continue your normal diet. What should I do if I forget a dose? Take the missed dose as soon as you remember it. However, if it is almost time for the next dose, skip the missed dose and continue your regular dosing schedule. Do not take a double dose to make up for a missed one. What side effects can this medication cause? Amoxicillin and clavulanic acid may cause side effects. Tell your doctor if any of these symptoms are severe or do not go away: diarrhea upset stomach vomiting mild skin rash Some side effects can be serious. If you experience any of the following symptoms, call your doctor immediately: severe skin rash itching hives difficulty breathing or swallowing wheezing vaginal itching and discharge yellowing of the skin or eyes Amoxicillin and clavulanic acid may cause other side effects. Call your doctor if you have any unusual problems while taking this medication. If you experience a serious side effect, you or your doctor may send a report to the Food and Drug Administration's (FDA) MedWatch Adverse Event Reporting program online ( http://www.fda.gov/Safety/MedWatch ) or by phone (1-800-332-1088). What should I know about storage and disposal of this medication? Keep this medication in the container it came in, tightly closed, and out of reach of children. Store the tablets at room temperature and away from excess heat and moisture (not in the bathroom). Keep liquid medication in the refrigerator, tightly closed, and dispose of any unused medication after 10 days. Do not freeze. It is important to keep all medication out of sight and reach of children as many containers (such as weekly pill minders and those for eye drops, creams, patches, and inhalers) are not child-resistant and young children can open them easily. To protect young children from poisoning, always lock safety caps and immediately place the medication in a safe location – one that is up and away and out of their sight and reach. http://www.upandaway.org Unneeded medications should be disposed of in special ways to ensure that pets, children, and other people cannot consume them. However, you should not flush this medication down the toilet. Instead, the best way to dispose of your medication is through a medicine take-back program. Talk to your pharmacist or contact your local garbage/recycling department to learn about take-back programs in your community. See the FDA's Safe Disposal of Medicines website ( http://goo.gl/c4Rm4p ) for more information if you do not have access to a take-back program. In case of emergency/overdose In case of overdose, call the poison control helpline at 1-800-222-1222. Information is also available online at https://www.poisonhelp.org/help . If the victim has collapsed, had a seizure, has trouble breathing, or can't be awakened, immediately call emergency services at 911. Symptoms of overdose may include the following: stomach pain vomiting diarrhea rash hyperactivity drowsiness What other information should I know? Keep all appointments with your doctor and the laboratory. Your doctor may order certain lab tests to check your body's response to amoxicillin and clavulanic acid. If you are diabetic, use Clinistix or TesTape (not Clinitest) to test your urine for sugar while taking this medication. Do not let anyone else take your medication. Your prescription is probably not refillable. If you still have symptoms of infection after you finish the amoxicillin and clavulanic acid, call your doctor. It is important for you to keep a written list of all of the prescription and nonprescription (over-the-counter) medicines you are taking, as well as any products such as vitamins, minerals, or other dietary supplements. You should bring this list with you each time you visit a doctor or if you are admitted to a hospital. It is also important information to carry with you in case of emergencies.



[ Antipyrine-Benzocaine Otic pronounced as (an tee pye' reen) (ben' zoe kane) To use the sharing features on this page, please enable JavaScript. Why is this medication prescribed? How should this medicine be used? Other uses for this medicine What special precautions should I follow? What special dietary instructions should I follow? What should I do if I forget a dose? What side effects can this medication cause? What should I know about storage and disposal of this medication? In case of emergency/overdose What other information should I know? Why is this medication prescribed? Antipyrine and benzocaine otic is used to relieve ear pain and swelling caused by middle ear infections. It may be used along with antibiotics to treat an ear infection. It is also used to help remove a build up of ear wax in the ear. Antipyrine and benzocaine are in a class of medications called analgesics. The combination of antipyrine and benzocaine works by reducing pain and discomfort in the ear. How should this medicine be used? Antipyrine and benzocaine otic comes as a solution (liquid) to place into the ear. When antipyrine and benzocaine is used to relieve ear pain, it is usually used every 1 to 2 hours as needed. When antipyrine and benzocaine is used to help in the removal of ear wax, it is usually used 3 times daily for 2-3 days. Follow the directions on your prescription label carefully, and ask your doctor or pharmacist to explain any part you do not understand. Use antipyrine and benzocaine otic exactly as directed. Antipyrine and benzocaine otic is for use only in the ears. To use the eardrops, follow these steps: Hold the bottle in your hand for 1 or 2 minutes to warm the solution. Place the prescribed number of drops into your ear. Be careful not to touch the tip to your ear, fingers, or any other surface. Moisten a small piece of cotton with the drops and insert into the outer ear. Repeat steps 2-4 for the opposite ear if necessary. Other uses for this medicine This medication may be prescribed for other uses; ask your doctor or pharmacist for more information. What special precautions should I follow? Before using antipyrine and benzocaine otic, tell your doctor and pharmacist if you are allergic to antipyrine or benzocaine or any other medications. tell your doctor and pharmacist what other prescription and nonprescription medications, vitamins, nutritional supplements, and herbal products you are taking or plan to take while using antipyrine and benzocaine otic. tell your doctor if you have a hole in your ear drum(s) or ear tube(s). Your doctor will probably tell you not to use this medication. tell your doctor if you are pregnant, plan to become pregnant, or are breast-feeding. If you become pregnant while using antipyrine and benzocaine otic, call your doctor. What special dietary instructions should I follow? Unless your doctor tells you otherwise, continue your normal diet. What should I do if I forget a dose? This medication is usually used as needed. If your doctor has told you to use antipyrine and benzocaine otic regularly, use the missed dose as soon as you remember it. However, if it is almost time for the next dose, skip the missed dose and continue your regular dosing schedule. Do not use extra solution to make up for a missed one. What side effects can this medication cause? Antipyrine and benzocaine otic may cause side effects. Call your doctor if you have any unusual problems while taking this medication. What should I know about storage and disposal of this medication? Keep this medication in the container it came in, tightly closed, and out of reach of children. Store it at room temperature and away from excess heat and moisture (not in the bathroom). Do not freeze. Antipyrine and benzocaine otic should be disposed of 6 months after the bottle is opened. Unneeded medications should be disposed of in special ways to ensure that pets, children, and other people cannot consume them. However, you should not flush this medication down the toilet. Instead, the best way to dispose of your medication is through a medicine take-back program. Talk to your pharmacist or contact your local garbage/recycling department to learn about take-back programs in your community. See the FDA's Safe Disposal of Medicines website ( http://goo.gl/c4Rm4p ) for more information if you do not have access to a take-back program. It is important to keep all medication out of sight and reach of children as many containers (such as weekly pill minders and those for eye drops, creams, patches, and inhalers) are not child-resistant and young children can open them easily. To protect young children from poisoning, always lock safety caps and immediately place the medication in a safe location – one that is up and away and out of their sight and reach. http://www.upandaway.org In case of emergency/overdose If someone swallows antipyrine and benzocaine otic, call your local poison control center at 1-800-222-1222. If the victim has collapsed or is not breathing, call local emergency services at 911. What other information should I know? Keep all appointments with your doctor. Do not let anyone else take your medication. Ask your pharmacist any questions you have about refilling your prescription. It is important for you to keep a written list of all of the prescription and nonprescription (over-the-counter) medicines you are taking, as well as any products such as vitamins, minerals, or other dietary supplements. You should bring this list with you each time you visit a doctor or if you are admitted to a hospital. It is also important information to carry with you in case of emergencies.



[ Antipyrine-Benzocaine Otic pronounced as (an tee pye' reen) (ben' zoe kane) To use the sharing features on this page, please enable JavaScript. Why is this medication prescribed? How should this medicine be used? Other uses for this medicine What special precautions should I follow? What special dietary instructions should I follow? What should I do if I forget a dose? What side effects can this medication cause? What should I know about storage and disposal of this medication? In case of emergency/overdose What other information should I know? Why is this medication prescribed? Antipyrine and benzocaine otic is used to relieve ear pain and swelling caused by middle ear infections. It may be used along with antibiotics to treat an ear infection. It is also used to help remove a build up of ear wax in the ear. Antipyrine and benzocaine are in a class of medications called analgesics. The combination of antipyrine and benzocaine works by reducing pain and discomfort in the ear. How should this medicine be used? Antipyrine and benzocaine otic comes as a solution (liquid) to place into the ear. When antipyrine and benzocaine is used to relieve ear pain, it is usually used every 1 to 2 hours as needed. When antipyrine and benzocaine is used to help in the removal of ear wax, it is usually used 3 times daily for 2-3 days. Follow the directions on your prescription label carefully, and ask your doctor or pharmacist to explain any part you do not understand. Use antipyrine and benzocaine otic exactly as directed. Antipyrine and benzocaine otic is for use only in the ears. To use the eardrops, follow these steps: Hold the bottle in your hand for 1 or 2 minutes to warm the solution. Place the prescribed number of drops into your ear. Be careful not to touch the tip to your ear, fingers, or any other surface. Moisten a small piece of cotton with the drops and insert into the outer ear. Repeat steps 2-4 for the opposite ear if necessary. Other uses for this medicine This medication may be prescribed for other uses; ask your doctor or pharmacist for more information. What special precautions should I follow? Before using antipyrine and benzocaine otic, tell your doctor and pharmacist if you are allergic to antipyrine or benzocaine or any other medications. tell your doctor and pharmacist what other prescription and nonprescription medications, vitamins, nutritional supplements, and herbal products you are taking or plan to take while using antipyrine and benzocaine otic. tell your doctor if you have a hole in your ear drum(s) or ear tube(s). Your doctor will probably tell you not to use this medication. tell your doctor if you are pregnant, plan to become pregnant, or are breast-feeding. If you become pregnant while using antipyrine and benzocaine otic, call your doctor. What special dietary instructions should I follow? Unless your doctor tells you otherwise, continue your normal diet. What should I do if I forget a dose? This medication is usually used as needed. If your doctor has told you to use antipyrine and benzocaine otic regularly, use the missed dose as soon as you remember it. However, if it is almost time for the next dose, skip the missed dose and continue your regular dosing schedule. Do not use extra solution to make up for a missed one. What side effects can this medication cause? Antipyrine and benzocaine otic may cause side effects. Call your doctor if you have any unusual problems while taking this medication. What should I know about storage and disposal of this medication? Keep this medication in the container it came in, tightly closed, and out of reach of children. Store it at room temperature and away from excess heat and moisture (not in the bathroom). Do not freeze. Antipyrine and benzocaine otic should be disposed of 6 months after the bottle is opened. Unneeded medications should be disposed of in special ways to ensure that pets, children, and other people cannot consume them. However, you should not flush this medication down the toilet. Instead, the best way to dispose of your medication is through a medicine take-back program. Talk to your pharmacist or contact your local garbage/recycling department to learn about take-back programs in your community. See the FDA's Safe Disposal of Medicines website ( http://goo.gl/c4Rm4p ) for more information if you do not have access to a take-back program. It is important to keep all medication out of sight and reach of children as many containers (such as weekly pill minders and those for eye drops, creams, patches, and inhalers) are not child-resistant and young children can open them easily. To protect young children from poisoning, always lock safety caps and immediately place the medication in a safe location – one that is up and away and out of their sight and reach. http://www.upandaway.org In case of emergency/overdose If someone swallows antipyrine and benzocaine otic, call your local poison control center at 1-800-222-1222. If the victim has collapsed or is not breathing, call local emergency services at 911. What other information should I know? Keep all appointments with your doctor. Do not let anyone else take your medication. Ask your pharmacist any questions you have about refilling your prescription. It is important for you to keep a written list of all of the prescription and nonprescription (over-the-counter) medicines you are taking, as well as any products such as vitamins, minerals, or other dietary supplements. You should bring this list with you each time you visit a doctor or if you are admitted to a hospital. It is also important information to carry with you in case of emergencies.



















[ Irbesartan pronounced as (ir be sar' tan) To use the sharing features on this page, please enable JavaScript. Why is this medication prescribed? How should this medicine be used? Other uses for this medicine What special precautions should I follow? What special dietary instructions should I follow? What should I do if I forget a dose? What side effects can this medication cause? What should I know about storage and disposal of this medication? In case of emergency/overdose What other information should I know? Brand names IMPORTANT WARNING: Tell your doctor if you are pregnant or plan to become pregnant. Do not take irbesartan if you are pregnant. If you become pregnant while you are taking irbesartan, stop taking irbesartan and call your doctor immediately. Irbesartan may cause death or serious injury to the fetus when taken in the last 6 months of pregnancy. Why is this medication prescribed? Irbesartan is used alone or in combination with other medications to treat high blood pressure. It is also used to treat kidney disease caused by diabetes in patients with type 2 diabetes (condition in which the body does not use insulin normally and therefore cannot control the amount of sugar in the blood) and high blood pressure. Irbesartan is in a class of medications called angiotensin II receptor antagonists. It works by blocking the action of certain natural substances that tighten the blood vessels, allowing the blood to flow more smoothly and the heart to pump more efficiently. High blood pressure is a common condition, and when not treated it can cause damage to the brain, heart, blood vessels, kidneys, and other parts of the body. Damage to these organs may cause heart disease, a heart attack, heart failure, stroke, kidney failure, loss of vision, and other problems. In addition to taking medication, making lifestyle changes will also help to control your blood pressure. These changes include eating a diet that is low in fat and salt, maintaining a healthy weight, exercising at least 30 minutes most days, not smoking, and using alcohol in moderation. How should this medicine be used? Irbesartan comes as a tablet to take by mouth. It is usually taken once a day with or without food. To help you remember to take irbesartan, take it at around the same time every day. Follow the directions on your prescription label carefully, and ask your doctor or pharmacist to explain any part you do not understand. Take irbesartan exactly as directed. Do not take more or less of it or take it more often than prescribed by your doctor. Your doctor may start you on a low dose of irbesartan and gradually increase your dose. Irbesartan controls high blood pressure but does not cure it. It may take 2 weeks for you to notice the full benefit of irbesartan. Continue to take irbesartan even if you feel well. Do not stop taking irbesartan without talking to your doctor. Other uses for this medicine Irbesartan is also used sometimes to treat heart failure (condition in which the heart is unable to pump enough blood to the rest of the body). Talk to your doctor about the possible risks of using this medication for your condition. This medication may be prescribed for other uses; ask your doctor or pharmacist for more information. What special precautions should I follow? Before taking irbesartan, tell your doctor and pharmacist if you are allergic to irbesartan, any other medications, or any of the ingredients in irbesartan tablets. Ask your pharmacist for a list of the ingredients. tell your doctor if you have diabetes (high blood sugar) and you are taking aliskiren (Tekturna, in Amturnide, Tekamlo, Tekturna HCT). Your doctor will probably tell you not to take irbesartan if you have diabetes and you are also taking aliskiren. tell your doctor and pharmacist what other prescription and nonprescription medications, vitamins, nutritional supplements, and herbal products you are taking or plan to take. Be sure to mention any of the following: angiotensin-converting enzyme (ACE) inhibitors such as benazepril (Lotensin, in Lotrel), captopril (Capoten, in Capozide), enalapril (Vasotec), fosinopril, lisinopril (in Prinzide, in Zestoretic), moexipril (Univasc, in Uniretic), perindopril (Aceon), quinapril (Accupril, in Accuretic, in Quinaretic), ramipril (Altace), and trandolapril (Mavik, in Tarka); aspirin and other nonsteroidal anti-inflammatory medications (NSAIDs) such as ibuprofen (Advil, Motrin), naproxen (Aleve, Naprosyn), and selective COX-2 inhibitors such as celecoxib (Celebrex); diuretics ('water pills'); and potassium supplements.. Your doctor may need to change the doses of your medications or monitor you carefully for side effects. tell your doctor if you have or have ever had heart failure, or kidney disease. tell your doctor if you are breastfeeding. you should know that irbesartan may cause dizziness, lightheadedness, and fainting when you get up too quickly from a lying position. This is more common when you first start taking irbesartan. To help avoid this problem, get out of bed slowly, resting your feet on the floor for a few minutes before standing up. you should know that diarrhea, vomiting, not drinking enough fluids, and sweating a lot can cause a drop in blood pressure, which may cause lightheadedness and fainting. Tell your doctor if you have any of these problems or develop them during your treatment. What special dietary instructions should I follow? Do not use salt substitutes containing potassium without talking to your doctor. If your doctor prescribes a low-salt or low-sodium diet, follow these directions carefully. What should I do if I forget a dose? Take the missed dose as soon as you remember it. However, if it is almost time for your next dose, skip the missed dose and continue your regular dosing schedule. Do not take a double dose to make up for a missed one. What side effects can this medication cause? Irbesartan may cause side effects. Tell your doctor if any of these symptoms are severe or do not go away: diarrhea heartburn excessive tiredness Some side effects can be serious. If you experience any of these symptoms or those listed in the SPECIAL PRECAUTIONS section, call your doctor immediately: swelling of the face, throat, tongue, lips, eyes, hands, feet, ankles, or lower legs hoarseness difficulty breathing or swallowing Irbesartan may cause other side effects. Call your doctor if you have any unusual problems while taking this medication. If you experience a serious side effect, you or your doctor may send a report to the Food and Drug Administration's (FDA) MedWatch Adverse Event Reporting program online ( http://www.fda.gov/Safety/MedWatch ) or by phone (1-800-332-1088). What should I know about storage and disposal of this medication? Keep this medication in the container it came in, tightly closed, and out of reach of children. Store it at room temperature and away from excess heat and moisture (not in the bathroom). It is important to keep all medication out of sight and reach of children as many containers (such as weekly pill minders and those for eye drops, creams, patches, and inhalers) are not child-resistant and young children can open them easily. To protect young children from poisoning, always lock safety caps and immediately place the medication in a safe location – one that is up and away and out of their sight and reach. http://www.upandaway.org Unneeded medications should be disposed of in special ways to ensure that pets, children, and other people cannot consume them. However, you should not flush this medication down the toilet. Instead, the best way to dispose of your medication is through a medicine take-back program. Talk to your pharmacist or contact your local garbage/recycling department to learn about take-back programs in your community. See the FDA's Safe Disposal of Medicines website ( http://goo.gl/c4Rm4p ) for more information if you do not have access to a take-back program. In case of emergency/overdose In case of overdose, call the poison control helpline at 1-800-222-1222. Information is also available online at https://www.poisonhelp.org/help . If the victim has collapsed, had a seizure, has trouble breathing, or can't be awakened, immediately call emergency services at 911. Symptoms of overdose may include the following: dizziness fainting fast or slow heartbeat What other information should I know? Keep all appointments with your doctor and the laboratory. Your blood pressure should be checked regularly to determine your response to irbesartan. Do not let anyone else take your medication. Ask your pharmacist any questions you have about refilling your prescription. It is important for you to keep a written list of all of the prescription and nonprescription (over-the-counter) medicines you are taking, as well as any products such as vitamins, minerals, or other dietary supplements. You should bring this list with you each time you visit a doctor or if you are admitted to a hospital. It is also important information to carry with you in case of emergencies. Brand names Avapro ®



[ Metformin pronounced as (met for' min) To use the sharing features on this page, please enable JavaScript. Why is this medication prescribed? How should this medicine be used? Other uses for this medicine What special precautions should I follow? What special dietary instructions should I follow? What should I do if I forget a dose? What side effects can this medication cause? What should I know about storage and disposal of this medication? In case of emergency/overdose What other information should I know? Brand names IMPORTANT WARNING: Metformin may rarely cause a serious, life-threatening condition called lactic acidosis. Tell your doctor if you have kidney disease. Your doctor will probably tell you not to take metformin. Also, tell your doctor if you are over 65 years old and if you have ever had a heart attack; stroke; diabetic ketoacidosis (blood sugar that is high enough to cause severe symptoms and requires emergency medical treatment); a coma; or heart or liver disease. Taking certain other medications with metformin may increase the risk of lactic acidosis. Tell your doctor if you are taking acetazolamide (Diamox), dichlorphenamide (Keveyis), methazolamide, topiramate (Topamax, in Qsymia), or zonisamide (Zonegran). Tell your doctor if you have recently had any of the following conditions, or if you develop them during treatment: serious infection; severe diarrhea, vomiting, or fever; or if you drink much less fluid than usual for any reason. You may have to stop taking metformin until you recover. If you are having surgery, including dental surgery, or any major medical procedure, tell the doctor that you are taking metformin. Also, tell your doctor if you plan to have any x-ray procedure in which dye is injected, especially if you drink or have ever drunk large amounts of alcohol or have or have had liver disease or heart failure. You may need to stop taking metformin before the procedure and wait at least 48 hours to restart treatment. Your doctor will tell you exactly when you should stop taking metformin and when you should start taking it again. If you experience any of the following symptoms, stop taking metformin and call your doctor immediately: extreme tiredness, weakness, or discomfort; nausea; vomiting; stomach pain; decreased appetite; deep and rapid breathing or shortness of breath; dizziness; lightheadedness; fast or slow heartbeat; muscle pain; or feeling cold, especially in your hands or feet. Tell your doctor if you regularly drink alcohol or sometimes drink large amounts of alcohol in a short time (binge drinking). Drinking alcohol increases your risk of developing lactic acidosis or may cause a decrease in blood sugar. Ask your doctor how much alcohol is safe to drink while you are taking metformin. Keep all appointments with your doctor and the laboratory. Your doctor will order certain tests before and during treatment to check how well your kidneys are working and your body's response to metformin. Talk to your doctor about the risk(s) of taking metformin. Why is this medication prescribed? Metformin is used alone or with other medications, including insulin, to treat type 2 diabetes (condition in which the body does not use insulin normally and, therefore, cannot control the amount of sugar in the blood). Metformin is in a class of drugs called biguanides. Metformin helps to control the amount of glucose (sugar) in your blood. It decreases the amount of glucose you absorb from your food and the amount of glucose made by your liver. Metformin also increases your body's response to insulin, a natural substance that controls the amount of glucose in the blood. Metformin is not used to treat type 1 diabetes (condition in which the body does not produce insulin and therefore cannot control the amount of sugar in the blood). Over time, people who have diabetes and high blood sugar can develop serious or life-threatening complications, including heart disease, stroke, kidney problems, nerve damage, and eye problems. Taking medication(s), making lifestyle changes (e.g., diet, exercise, quitting smoking), and regularly checking your blood sugar may help to manage your diabetes and improve your health. This therapy may also decrease your chances of having a heart attack, stroke, or other diabetes-related complications such as kidney failure, nerve damage (numb, cold legs or feet; decreased sexual ability in men and women), eye problems, including changes or loss of vision, or gum disease. Your doctor and other healthcare providers will talk to you about the best way to manage your diabetes. How should this medicine be used? Metformin comes as a tablet, an extended-release (long-acting) tablet, and a solution (liquid) to take by mouth. The solution is usually taken with meals one or two times a day. The regular tablet is usually taken with meals two or three times a day. The extended-release tablet is usually taken once daily with the evening meal. To help you remember to take metformin, take it around the same time(s) every day. Follow the directions on your prescription label carefully, and ask your doctor or pharmacist to explain any part you do not understand. Take metformin exactly as directed. Do not take more or less of it or take it more often than prescribed by your doctor. Swallow metformin extended-release tablets whole; do not split, chew, or crush them. Your doctor may start you on a low dose of metformin and gradually increase your dose not more often than once every 1–2 weeks. You will need to monitor your blood sugar carefully so your doctor will be able to tell how well metformin is working. Metformin controls diabetes but does not cure it. Continue to take metformin even if you feel well. Do not stop taking metformin without talking to your doctor. Ask your pharmacist or doctor for a copy of the manufacturer's information for the patient. Other uses for this medicine This medication may be prescribed for other uses; ask your doctor or pharmacist for more information. What special precautions should I follow? Before taking metformin, tell your doctor and pharmacist if you are allergic to metformin, any of the ingredients of metformin liquid or tablets, or any other medications. Ask your pharmacist or check the manufacturer's patient information for a list of the ingredients. tell your doctor and pharmacist what other prescription and nonprescription medications, vitamins, nutritional supplements, and herbal products you are taking. Your doctor may need to change the doses of your medications or monitor you carefully for side effects. tell your doctor if you have or have ever had low levels of vitamin B 12 in your body or any other medical conditions, especially those mentioned in the IMPORTANT WARNING section. tell your doctor if you are pregnant, plan to become pregnant, or are breastfeeding. If you become pregnant while taking metformin, call your doctor. tell your doctor if you eat less or exercise more than usual. This can affect your blood sugar. Your doctor will give you instructions if this happens. What special dietary instructions should I follow? Be sure to follow all exercise and dietary recommendations made by your doctor or dietitian. It is important to eat a healthful diet. What should I do if I forget a dose? Take the missed dose as soon as you remember it. However, if it is almost time for the next dose, skip the missed dose and continue your regular dosing schedule. Do not take a double dose to make up for a missed one. What side effects can this medication cause? This medication may cause changes in your blood sugar. You should know the symptoms of low and high blood sugar and what to do if you have these symptoms. Metformin may cause side effects. Tell your doctor if any of these symptoms are severe, do not go away, go away and come back, or do not begin for some time after you begin taking metformin: diarrhea nausea stomach discomfort gas indigestion constipation lack of energy or weakness change in sense of taste headache flushing of the skin nail changes muscle pain rash Some side effects can be serious. If you experience any of these symptoms or those listed in the IMPORTANT WARNING section, call your doctor immediately or get emergency treatment: chest pain Metformin may cause other side effects. Call your doctor if you have any unusual problems while taking this medication. If you experience a serious side effect, you or your doctor may send a report to the Food and Drug Administration's (FDA) MedWatch Adverse Event Reporting program online ( http://www.fda.gov/Safety/MedWatch ) or by phone (1-800-332-1088). What should I know about storage and disposal of this medication? Keep this medication in the container it came in, tightly closed, and out of reach of children. Store it at room temperature and away from light, excess heat, and moisture (not in the bathroom). Unneeded medications should be disposed of in special ways to ensure that pets, children, and other people cannot consume them. However, you should not flush this medication down the toilet. Instead, the best way to dispose of your medication is through a medicine take-back program. Talk to your pharmacist or contact your local garbage/recycling department to learn about take-back programs in your community. See the FDA's Safe Disposal of Medicines website ( http://goo.gl/c4Rm4p ) for more information if you do not have access to a take-back program. It is important to keep all medication out of sight and reach of children as many containers (such as weekly pill minders and those for eye drops, creams, patches, and inhalers) are not child-resistant and young children can open them easily. To protect young children from poisoning, always lock safety caps and immediately place the medication in a safe location – one that is up and away and out of their sight and reach. http://www.upandaway.org In case of emergency/overdose In case of overdose, call the poison control helpline at 1-800-222-1222. Information is also available online at https://www.poisonhelp.org/help . If the victim has collapsed, had a seizure, has trouble breathing, or can't be awakened, immediately call emergency services at 911. Symptoms of overdose may include hypoglycemia symptoms as well as the following: extreme tiredness weakness discomfort vomiting nausea stomach pain decreased appetite deep, rapid breathing shortness of breath dizziness lightheadedness abnormally fast or slow heartbeat muscle pain feeling cold What other information should I know? Your doctor will tell you how to check your response to this medication by measuring your blood sugar levels at home. Follow these instructions carefully. If you are taking the extended-release tablets, you may notice something that looks like a tablet in your stool. This is just the empty tablet shell, and this does not mean that you did not get your complete dose of medication. You should always wear a diabetic identification bracelet to be sure you get proper treatment in an emergency. Do not let anyone else take your medication. Ask your pharmacist any questions you have about refilling your prescription. It is important for you to keep a written list of all of the prescription and nonprescription (over-the-counter) medicines you are taking, as well as any products such as vitamins, minerals, or other dietary supplements. You should bring this list with you each time you visit a doctor or if you are admitted to a hospital. It is also important information to carry with you in case of emergencies. Brand names Fortamet ® Glucophage ® ¶ Glumetza ® Riomet ® ¶ Trijardy ® (as a combination product containing Empagliflozin, Linagliptin, Metformin)

[ Rosiglitazone pronounced as (roe si gli' ta zone) To use the sharing features on this page, please enable JavaScript. Why is this medication prescribed? How should this medicine be used? Other uses for this medicine What special precautions should I follow? What special dietary instructions should I follow? What should I do if I forget a dose? What side effects can this medication cause? What should I know about storage and disposal of this medication? In case of emergency/overdose What other information should I know? Brand names IMPORTANT WARNING: Rosiglitazone and other similar medications for diabetes may cause or worsen congestive heart failure (condition in which the heart is unable to pump enough blood to the other parts of the body). Before you start to take rosiglitazone, tell your doctor if you have or have ever had congestive heart failure, especially if your heart failure is so severe that you must limit your activity and are only comfortable when you are at rest or you must remain in a chair or bed. Also tell your doctor if you were born with a heart defect, and if you have or have ever had swelling of the arms, hands, feet, ankles, or lower legs; heart disease, high blood pressure; coronary artery disease (narrowing of the blood vessels that lead to the heart); a heart attack; an irregular heartbeat; or sleep apnea. Your doctor may tell you not to take rosiglitazone or may monitor you carefully during your treatment. If you develop congestive heart failure, you may experience certain symptoms. Tell your doctor immediately if you have any of the following symptoms, especially when you first start taking rosiglitazone or after your dose is increased: large weight gain in a short period of time; shortness of breath; swelling of the arms, hands, feet, ankles, or lower legs; swelling or pain in the stomach; waking up short of breath during the night; needing to sleep with extra pillows under your head in order to breathe while lying down; frequent dry cough or wheezing; difficulty thinking clearly or confusion; fast or racing heart beat; not able to walk or exercise as well; or increased tiredness. Your doctor or pharmacist will give you the manufacturer's patient information sheet (Medication Guide) when you begin treatment with rosiglitazone and each time you refill your prescription. Read the information carefully and ask your doctor or pharmacist if you have any questions. You can also visit the Food and Drug Administration (FDA) website ( http://www.fda.gov/Drugs ) or the manufacturer's website to obtain the Medication Guide. Talk to your doctor about the risks of taking rosiglitazone. Why is this medication prescribed? Rosiglitazone is used along with a diet and exercise program and sometimes with one or more other medications to treat type 2 diabetes (condition in which the body does not use insulin normally and therefore cannot control the amount of sugar in the blood). Rosiglitazone is in a class of medications called thiazolidinediones. It works by increasing the body's sensitivity to insulin, a natural substance that helps control blood sugar levels. Rosiglitazone is not used to treat type 1 diabetes (condition in which the body does not produce insulin and therefore cannot control the amount of sugar in the blood) or diabetic ketoacidosis (a serious condition that may occur if high blood sugar is not treated). Over time, people who have diabetes and high blood sugar can develop serious or life-threatening complications, including heart disease, stroke, kidney problems, nerve damage, and eye problems. Taking medication(s), making lifestyle changes (e.g., diet, exercise, quitting smoking), and regularly checking your blood sugar may help to manage your diabetes and improve your health. This therapy may also decrease your chances of having a heart attack, stroke, or other diabetes-related complications such as kidney failure, nerve damage (numb, cold legs or feet; decreased sexual ability in men and women), eye problems, including changes or loss of vision, or gum disease. Your doctor and other healthcare providers will talk to you about the best way to manage your diabetes. How should this medicine be used? Rosiglitazone comes as a tablet to take by mouth. It is usually taken once or twice daily with or without meals. Take rosiglitazone at about the same time(s) every day. Follow the directions on your prescription label carefully, and ask your doctor or pharmacist to explain any part you do not understand. Take rosiglitazone exactly as directed. Do not take more or less of it or take it more often than prescribed by your doctor. Your doctor may increase your dose of rosiglitazone after 8-12 weeks, based on your body's response to the medication. Rosiglitazone helps control type 2 diabetes but does not cure it. It may take 2 weeks for your blood sugar to decrease, and 2-3 months or longer for you to feel the full benefit of rosiglitazone. Continue to take rosiglitazone even if you feel well. Do not stop taking rosiglitazone without talking to your doctor. Other uses for this medicine This medication may be prescribed for other uses; ask your doctor or pharmacist for more information. What special precautions should I follow? Before taking rosiglitazone, tell your doctor and pharmacist if you are allergic to rosiglitazone, any other medications, or any of the ingredients in rosiglitazone tablets. Ask your pharmacist or check the Medication Guide for a list of the ingredients. tell your doctor and pharmacist what prescription and nonprescription medications, vitamins, nutritional supplements, and herbal products you are taking or plan to take. Be sure to mention any of the following: gemfibrozil (Lopid); insulin or other medications for diabetes; medications for high blood pressure, high cholesterol, heart failure, or prevention of heart attack or stroke; and rifampin (Rifadin, Rimactane, in Rifamate). Your doctor may need to change the doses of your medications or monitor you carefully for side effects. tell your doctor if you have or have ever had any of the conditions mentioned in the IMPORTANT WARNING section or diabetic eye disease such as macular edema (swelling of the back of the eye); or liver disease. Also tell your doctor if you have ever taken troglitazone (Rezulin, no longer available in the United States), especially if you stopped taking it because you experienced side effects. tell your doctor if you are pregnant, plan to become pregnant, or are breast-feeding. If you become pregnant while taking rosiglitazone, call your doctor. if you have not yet experienced menopause (change of life; end of monthly menstrual periods) you should know that rosiglitazone may increase the chance that you will become pregnant even if you do not have regular monthly periods or you have a condition that prevents you from ovulating (releasing an egg from the ovaries). Talk to your doctor about methods of birth control that will work for you. What special dietary instructions should I follow? Be sure to follow all exercise and dietary recommendations made by your doctor or dietitian. It is important to eat a healthy diet, exercise regularly, and lose weight if necessary. This will help to control your diabetes and help rosiglitazone work more effectively What should I do if I forget a dose? Take the missed dose as soon as you remember it. However, if it is time for the next dose, skip the missed dose and continue your regular dosing schedule. Do not take a double dose to make up for a missed one. What side effects can this medication cause? This medication may cause changes in your blood sugar. You should know the symptoms of low and high blood sugar and what to do if you have these symptoms. Rosiglitazone may cause side effects. Tell your doctor if any of these symptoms are severe or do not go away: headache runny nose and other cold symptoms sore throat back pain Some side effects can be serious. If you experience any of the following symptoms, or those listed in the IMPORTANT WARNING section, call your doctor immediately: pain in the jaw, arm, back, neck, or stomach chest pain breaking out in a cold sweat lightheadedness loss of appetite nausea vomiting stomach pain dark urine yellowing of the skin or eyes changes in vision vision loss pale skin dizziness swelling of the eyes, face, lips, tongue, or throat hoarseness difficulty swallowing or breathing hives itching fever blisters Rosiglitazone may cause other side effects. Call your doctor if you experience any unusual problems while you are taking this medication. Taking rosiglitazone may increase the risk that you will experience a fracture, usually in the upper arms, hands, or feet. Talk to your doctor about the risk of taking this medication and about ways to keep your bones healthy during your treatment. If you experience a serious side effect, you or your doctor may send a report to the Food and Drug Administration's (FDA) MedWatch Adverse Event Reporting program online ( http://www.fda.gov/Safety/MedWatch ) or by phone (1-800-332-1088). What should I know about storage and disposal of this medication? Keep this medication in the container it came in, tightly closed, and out of reach of children. Store it at room temperature and away from light, excess heat, and moisture (not in the bathroom). It is important to keep all medication out of sight and reach of children as many containers (such as weekly pill minders and those for eye drops, creams, patches, and inhalers) are not child-resistant and young children can open them easily. To protect young children from poisoning, always lock safety caps and immediately place the medication in a safe location – one that is up and away and out of their sight and reach. http://www.upandaway.org Unneeded medications should be disposed of in special ways to ensure that pets, children, and other people cannot consume them. However, you should not flush this medication down the toilet. Instead, the best way to dispose of your medication is through a medicine take-back program. Talk to your pharmacist or contact your local garbage/recycling department to learn about take-back programs in your community. See the FDA's Safe Disposal of Medicines website ( http://goo.gl/c4Rm4p ) for more information if you do not have access to a take-back program. In case of emergency/overdose In case of overdose, call the poison control helpline at 1-800-222-1222. Information is also available online at https://www.poisonhelp.org/help . If the victim has collapsed, had a seizure, has trouble breathing, or can't be awakened, immediately call emergency services at 911. What other information should I know? Keep all appointments with your doctor, your eye doctor, and the laboratory. Your doctor will probably order regular eye examinations and certain laboratory tests to check your body's response to rosiglitazone. Your blood sugar and glycosylated hemoglobin should be checked regularly to determine your response to rosiglitazone. Your doctor may also tell you how to check your response to rosiglitazone by measuring your blood sugar levels at home. Follow these directions carefully. You should always wear a diabetic identification bracelet to be sure you get proper treatment in an emergency. Do not let anyone else take your medication. Ask your pharmacist any questions you have about refilling your prescription. It is important for you to keep a written list of all of the prescription and nonprescription (over-the-counter) medicines you are taking, as well as any products such as vitamins, minerals, or other dietary supplements. You should bring this list with you each time you visit a doctor or if you are admitted to a hospital. It is also important information to carry with you in case of emergencies. Brand names Avandia ®

[ Glimepiride pronounced as (glye' me pye ride)  Glimepiride is used along with diet and exercise, and sometimes with other medications, to treat type 2 diabetes (condition in which the body does not use insulin normally and, therefore, cannot control the amount of sugar in the blood). Glimepiride lowers blood sugar by causing the pancreas to produce insulin (a natural substance that is needed to break down sugar in the body) and helping the body use insulin efficiently. This medication will only help lower blood sugar in people whose bodies produce insulin naturally. Glimepiride is not used to treat type 1 diabetes (condition in which the body does not produce insulin and, therefore, cannot control the amount of sugar in the blood) or diabetic ketoacidosis (a serious condition that may occur if high blood sugar is not treated). Over time, people who have diabetes and high blood sugar can develop serious or life-threatening complications, including heart disease, stroke, kidney problems, nerve damage, and eye problems. Taking medication(s), making lifestyle changes (e.g., diet, exercise, quitting smoking), and regularly checking your blood sugar may help to manage your diabetes and improve your health. This therapy may also decrease your chances of having a heart attack, stroke, or other diabetes-related complications such as kidney failure, nerve damage (numb, cold legs or feet; decreased sexual ability in men and women), eye problems, including changes or loss of vision, or gum disease. Your doctor and other healthcare providers will talk to you about the best way to manage your diabetes. How should this medicine be used? Glimepiride comes as a tablet to take by mouth. It is usually taken once a day with breakfast or the first main meal of the day. To help you remember to take glimepiride, take it at around the same time every day. Follow the directions on your prescription label carefully, and ask your doctor or pharmacist to explain any part you do not understand. Take glimepiride exactly as directed. Do not take more or less of it or take it more often than prescribed by your doctor. Your doctor will probably start you on a low dose of glimepiride and gradually increase your dose if needed. After you have taken glimepiride for some time, glimepiride may not control your blood sugar as well as it did at the beginning of your treatment. Your doctor may adjust the dose of your medication as needed so that the medication will work best for you. Be sure to tell your doctor how you are feeling and if your blood sugar test results have been higher or lower than normal at any time during your treatment. Glimepiride helps control blood sugar but does not cure diabetes. Continue to take glimepiride even if you feel well. Do not stop taking glimepiride without talking to your doctor. Other uses for this medicine This medication is sometimes prescribed for other uses; ask your doctor or pharmacist for more information. What special precautions should I follow? Before taking glimepiride, tell your doctor and pharmacist if you are allergic to glimepiride, any other medications, or any of the ingredients in glimepiride. Ask your pharmacist for a list of the ingredients. tell your doctor and pharmacist what prescription and nonprescription medications, vitamins, nutritional supplements, and herbal products you are taking or plan to take. Be sure to mention anticoagulants ('blood thinners') such as warfarin (Coumadin); aspirin and other nonsteroidal anti-inflammatory medications (NSAIDs) such as ibuprofen (Advil, Motrin) and naproxen (Aleve, Naprosyn); beta blockers such as atenolol (Tenormin), labetalol (Normodyne), metoprolol (Lopressor, Toprol XL), nadolol (Corgard), and propranolol (Inderal); chloramphenicol; clarithromycin (Biaxin); disopyramide (Norpace); diuretics ('water pills'); fluconazole (Diflucan); fluoxetine (Prozac, Sarafem); hormone replacement therapy and hormonal contraceptives (birth control pills, patches, rings, implants, and injections); insulin or other medications to treat high blood sugar or diabetes; isoniazid (INH); MAO inhibitors such as isocarboxazid (Marplan), phenelzine (Nardil), selegiline (Eldepryl, Emsam, Zelapar), and tranylcypromine (Parnate); medications for asthma and colds; medications for mental illness and nausea; miconazole (Monistat); niacin; oral steroids such as dexamethasone (Decadron, Dexone), methylprednisolone (Medrol), and prednisone (Deltasone); phenytoin (Dilantin); probenecid (Benemid); quinolone and fluoroquinolone antibiotics such as cinoxacin (Cinobac), ciprofloxacin (Cipro), enoxacin (Penetrex), gatifloxacin (Tequin), levofloxacin (Levaquin), lomefloxacin (Maxaquin), moxifloxacin (Avelox), nalidixic acid (NegGram), norfloxacin (Noroxin), ofloxacin (Floxin), sparfloxacin (Zagam), trovafloxacin and alatrofloxacin combination (Trovan); rifampin (Rifadin); salicylate pain relievers such as choline magnesium trisalicylate, choline salicylate (Arthropan), diflunisal (Dolobid), magnesium salicylate (Doan's, others), and salsalate (Argesic, Disalcid, Salgesic); sulfa antibiotics such as co-trimoxazole (Bactrim, Septra); sulfasalazine (Azulfidine); and thyroid medications. Also be sure to tell your doctor or pharmacist if you stop taking any medications while taking glimepiride. Your doctor may need to change the doses of your medications or monitor you carefully for side effects. tell your doctor if you have or have ever had G6PD deficiency (an inherited condition causing premature destruction of red blood cells or hemolytic anemia); if you have hormone disorders involving the adrenal, pituitary, or thyroid gland; or if you have heart, kidney, or liver disease. tell your doctor if you are pregnant, plan to become pregnant, or are breastfeeding. If you become pregnant while taking glimepiride, call your doctor. talk to your doctor about the risks and benefits of taking glimepiride if you are 65 years of age or older. Older adults should not usually take glimepiride because it is not as safe or effective as other medications that can be used to treat the same condition. if you are having surgery, including dental surgery, tell the doctor or dentist that you are taking glimepiride. ask your doctor about the safe use of alcoholic beverages while you are taking glimepiride. Alcohol can make the side effects from glimepiride worse. Consuming alcohol while taking glimepiride also may cause symptoms such as flushing (reddening of the face), headache, nausea, vomiting, chest pain, weakness, blurred vision, mental confusion, sweating, choking, breathing difficulty, and anxiety. plan to avoid unnecessary or prolonged exposure to sunlight and to wear protective clothing, sunglasses, and sunscreen. Glimepiride may make your skin sensitive to sunlight. ask your doctor what to do if you get sick, develop an infection or fever, experience unusual stress, or are injured. These conditions can affect your blood sugar and the amount of glimepiride you may need. What special dietary instructions should I follow? Be sure to follow all exercise and dietary recommendations made by your doctor or dietitian. It is important to eat a healthy diet, exercise regularly, and lose weight if necessary. What should I do if I forget a dose? Before you start to take glimepiride, ask you doctor what you should do if you forget to take a dose. Write these directions down so that you can refer to them later. As a general rule, take the missed dose as soon as you remember it. If it is almost time for the next dose, skip the missed dose and continue your regular dosing schedule. Do not take a double dose to make up for a missed one. What side effects can this medication cause? This medication may cause changes in your blood sugar. You should know the symptoms of low and high blood sugar and what to do if you have these symptoms. Glimepiride may cause side effects. Tell your doctor if any of these symptoms are severe or do not go away: dizziness nausea Some side effects can be serious. If you experience any of these symptoms, call your doctor immediately: yellowing of the skin or eyes light-colored stools dark urine pain in the upper right part of the stomach unusual bruising or bleeding diarrhea fever sore throat Glimepiride may cause other side effects. Call your doctor if you have any unusual problems while taking this medication. If you experience a serious side effect, you or your doctor may send a report to the Food and Drug Administration's (FDA) MedWatch Adverse Event Reporting program online ( http://www.fda.gov/Safety/MedWatch ) or by phone (1-800-332-1088). In one study, people who took a medication similar to glimepiride to treat their diabetes were more likely to die of heart problems than people who were treated with insulin and diet changes. Talk to your doctor about the risks of taking glimepiride. What should I know about storage and disposal of this medication? Keep this medication in the container it came in, tightly closed, and out of reach of children. Store it at room temperature and away from excess heat and moisture (not in the bathroom). It is important to keep all medication out of sight and reach of children as many containers (such as weekly pill minders and those for eye drops, creams, patches, and inhalers) are not child-resistant and young children can open them easily. To protect young children from poisoning, always lock safety caps and immediately place the medication in a safe location – one that is up and away and out of their sight and reach. http://www.upandaway.org Unneeded medications should be disposed of in special ways to ensure that pets, children, and other people cannot consume them. However, you should not flush this medication down the toilet. Instead, the best way to dispose of your medication is through a medicine take-back program. Talk to your pharmacist or contact your local garbage/recycling department to learn about take-back programs in your community. See the FDA's Safe Disposal of Medicines website ( http://goo.gl/c4Rm4p ) for more information if you do not have access to a take-back program. In case of emergency/overdose In case of overdose, call the poison control helpline at 1-800-222-1222. Information is also available online at https://www.poisonhelp.org/help . If the victim has collapsed, had a seizure, has trouble breathing, or can't be awakened, immediately call emergency services at 911. Symptoms of overdose may include hypoglycemia symptoms as well as the following: seizures loss of consciousness What other information should I know? Keep all appointments with your doctor and the laboratory. Your fasting blood sugar levels and glycosylated hemoglobin (HbA1c) should be checked regularly to determine your response to glimepiride. Your doctor may order other lab tests to check your response to glimepiride. Your doctor will also tell you how to check your response to this medication by measuring your blood sugar levels at home. Follow these instructions carefully. You should always wear a diabetic identification bracelet to be sure you get proper treatment in an emergency. Do not let anyone else take your medication. Ask your pharmacist any questions you have about refilling your prescription. It is important for you to keep a written list of all of the prescription and nonprescription (over-the-counter) medicines you are taking, as well as any products such as vitamins, minerals, or other dietary supplements. You should bring this list with you each time you visit a doctor or if you are admitted to a hospital. It is also important information to carry with you in case of emergencies. Brand names Amaryl ®

[ Rosiglitazone pronounced as (roe si gli' ta zone) To use the sharing features on this page, please enable JavaScript. Why is this medication prescribed? How should this medicine be used? Other uses for this medicine What special precautions should I follow? What special dietary instructions should I follow? What should I do if I forget a dose? What side effects can this medication cause? What should I know about storage and disposal of this medication? In case of emergency/overdose What other information should I know? Brand names IMPORTANT WARNING: Rosiglitazone and other similar medications for diabetes may cause or worsen congestive heart failure (condition in which the heart is unable to pump enough blood to the other parts of the body). Before you start to take rosiglitazone, tell your doctor if you have or have ever had congestive heart failure, especially if your heart failure is so severe that you must limit your activity and are only comfortable when you are at rest or you must remain in a chair or bed. Also tell your doctor if you were born with a heart defect, and if you have or have ever had swelling of the arms, hands, feet, ankles, or lower legs; heart disease, high blood pressure; coronary artery disease (narrowing of the blood vessels that lead to the heart); a heart attack; an irregular heartbeat; or sleep apnea. Your doctor may tell you not to take rosiglitazone or may monitor you carefully during your treatment. If you develop congestive heart failure, you may experience certain symptoms. Tell your doctor immediately if you have any of the following symptoms, especially when you first start taking rosiglitazone or after your dose is increased: large weight gain in a short period of time; shortness of breath; swelling of the arms, hands, feet, ankles, or lower legs; swelling or pain in the stomach; waking up short of breath during the night; needing to sleep with extra pillows under your head in order to breathe while lying down; frequent dry cough or wheezing; difficulty thinking clearly or confusion; fast or racing heart beat; not able to walk or exercise as well; or increased tiredness. Your doctor or pharmacist will give you the manufacturer's patient information sheet (Medication Guide) when you begin treatment with rosiglitazone and each time you refill your prescription. Read the information carefully and ask your doctor or pharmacist if you have any questions. You can also visit the Food and Drug Administration (FDA) website ( http://www.fda.gov/Drugs ) or the manufacturer's website to obtain the Medication Guide. Talk to your doctor about the risks of taking rosiglitazone. Why is this medication prescribed? Rosiglitazone is used along with a diet and exercise program and sometimes with one or more other medications to treat type 2 diabetes (condition in which the body does not use insulin normally and therefore cannot control the amount of sugar in the blood). Rosiglitazone is in a class of medications called thiazolidinediones. It works by increasing the body's sensitivity to insulin, a natural substance that helps control blood sugar levels. Rosiglitazone is not used to treat type 1 diabetes (condition in which the body does not produce insulin and therefore cannot control the amount of sugar in the blood) or diabetic ketoacidosis (a serious condition that may occur if high blood sugar is not treated). Over time, people who have diabetes and high blood sugar can develop serious or life-threatening complications, including heart disease, stroke, kidney problems, nerve damage, and eye problems. Taking medication(s), making lifestyle changes (e.g., diet, exercise, quitting smoking), and regularly checking your blood sugar may help to manage your diabetes and improve your health. This therapy may also decrease your chances of having a heart attack, stroke, or other diabetes-related complications such as kidney failure, nerve damage (numb, cold legs or feet; decreased sexual ability in men and women), eye problems, including changes or loss of vision, or gum disease. Your doctor and other healthcare providers will talk to you about the best way to manage your diabetes. How should this medicine be used? Rosiglitazone comes as a tablet to take by mouth. It is usually taken once or twice daily with or without meals. Take rosiglitazone at about the same time(s) every day. Follow the directions on your prescription label carefully, and ask your doctor or pharmacist to explain any part you do not understand. Take rosiglitazone exactly as directed. Do not take more or less of it or take it more often than prescribed by your doctor. Your doctor may increase your dose of rosiglitazone after 8-12 weeks, based on your body's response to the medication. Rosiglitazone helps control type 2 diabetes but does not cure it. It may take 2 weeks for your blood sugar to decrease, and 2-3 months or longer for you to feel the full benefit of rosiglitazone. Continue to take rosiglitazone even if you feel well. Do not stop taking rosiglitazone without talking to your doctor. Other uses for this medicine This medication may be prescribed for other uses; ask your doctor or pharmacist for more information. What special precautions should I follow? Before taking rosiglitazone, tell your doctor and pharmacist if you are allergic to rosiglitazone, any other medications, or any of the ingredients in rosiglitazone tablets. Ask your pharmacist or check the Medication Guide for a list of the ingredients. tell your doctor and pharmacist what prescription and nonprescription medications, vitamins, nutritional supplements, and herbal products you are taking or plan to take. Be sure to mention any of the following: gemfibrozil (Lopid); insulin or other medications for diabetes; medications for high blood pressure, high cholesterol, heart failure, or prevention of heart attack or stroke; and rifampin (Rifadin, Rimactane, in Rifamate). Your doctor may need to change the doses of your medications or monitor you carefully for side effects. tell your doctor if you have or have ever had any of the conditions mentioned in the IMPORTANT WARNING section or diabetic eye disease such as macular edema (swelling of the back of the eye); or liver disease. Also tell your doctor if you have ever taken troglitazone (Rezulin, no longer available in the United States), especially if you stopped taking it because you experienced side effects. tell your doctor if you are pregnant, plan to become pregnant, or are breast-feeding. If you become pregnant while taking rosiglitazone, call your doctor. if you have not yet experienced menopause (change of life; end of monthly menstrual periods) you should know that rosiglitazone may increase the chance that you will become pregnant even if you do not have regular monthly periods or you have a condition that prevents you from ovulating (releasing an egg from the ovaries). Talk to your doctor about methods of birth control that will work for you. What special dietary instructions should I follow? Be sure to follow all exercise and dietary recommendations made by your doctor or dietitian. It is important to eat a healthy diet, exercise regularly, and lose weight if necessary. This will help to control your diabetes and help rosiglitazone work more effectively What should I do if I forget a dose? Take the missed dose as soon as you remember it. However, if it is time for the next dose, skip the missed dose and continue your regular dosing schedule. Do not take a double dose to make up for a missed one. What side effects can this medication cause? This medication may cause changes in your blood sugar. You should know the symptoms of low and high blood sugar and what to do if you have these symptoms. Rosiglitazone may cause side effects. Tell your doctor if any of these symptoms are severe or do not go away: headache runny nose and other cold symptoms sore throat back pain Some side effects can be serious. If you experience any of the following symptoms, or those listed in the IMPORTANT WARNING section, call your doctor immediately: pain in the jaw, arm, back, neck, or stomach chest pain breaking out in a cold sweat lightheadedness loss of appetite nausea vomiting stomach pain dark urine yellowing of the skin or eyes changes in vision vision loss pale skin dizziness swelling of the eyes, face, lips, tongue, or throat hoarseness difficulty swallowing or breathing hives itching fever blisters Rosiglitazone may cause other side effects. Call your doctor if you experience any unusual problems while you are taking this medication. Taking rosiglitazone may increase the risk that you will experience a fracture, usually in the upper arms, hands, or feet. Talk to your doctor about the risk of taking this medication and about ways to keep your bones healthy during your treatment. If you experience a serious side effect, you or your doctor may send a report to the Food and Drug Administration's (FDA) MedWatch Adverse Event Reporting program online ( http://www.fda.gov/Safety/MedWatch ) or by phone (1-800-332-1088). What should I know about storage and disposal of this medication? Keep this medication in the container it came in, tightly closed, and out of reach of children. Store it at room temperature and away from light, excess heat, and moisture (not in the bathroom). It is important to keep all medication out of sight and reach of children as many containers (such as weekly pill minders and those for eye drops, creams, patches, and inhalers) are not child-resistant and young children can open them easily. To protect young children from poisoning, always lock safety caps and immediately place the medication in a safe location – one that is up and away and out of their sight and reach. http://www.upandaway.org Unneeded medications should be disposed of in special ways to ensure that pets, children, and other people cannot consume them. However, you should not flush this medication down the toilet. Instead, the best way to dispose of your medication is through a medicine take-back program. Talk to your pharmacist or contact your local garbage/recycling department to learn about take-back programs in your community. See the FDA's Safe Disposal of Medicines website ( http://goo.gl/c4Rm4p ) for more information if you do not have access to a take-back program. In case of emergency/overdose In case of overdose, call the poison control helpline at 1-800-222-1222. Information is also available online at https://www.poisonhelp.org/help . If the victim has collapsed, had a seizure, has trouble breathing, or can't be awakened, immediately call emergency services at 911. What other information should I know? Keep all appointments with your doctor, your eye doctor, and the laboratory. Your doctor will probably order regular eye examinations and certain laboratory tests to check your body's response to rosiglitazone. Your blood sugar and glycosylated hemoglobin should be checked regularly to determine your response to rosiglitazone. Your doctor may also tell you how to check your response to rosiglitazone by measuring your blood sugar levels at home. Follow these directions carefully. You should always wear a diabetic identification bracelet to be sure you get proper treatment in an emergency. Do not let anyone else take your medication. Ask your pharmacist any questions you have about refilling your prescription. It is important for you to keep a written list of all of the prescription and nonprescription (over-the-counter) medicines you are taking, as well as any products such as vitamins, minerals, or other dietary supplements. You should bring this list with you each time you visit a doctor or if you are admitted to a hospital. It is also important information to carry with you in case of emergencies. Brand names Avandia ®

[ Rosiglitazone pronounced as (roe si gli' ta zone) To use the sharing features on this page, please enable JavaScript. Why is this medication prescribed? How should this medicine be used? Other uses for this medicine What special precautions should I follow? What special dietary instructions should I follow? What should I do if I forget a dose? What side effects can this medication cause? What should I know about storage and disposal of this medication? In case of emergency/overdose What other information should I know? Brand names IMPORTANT WARNING: Rosiglitazone and other similar medications for diabetes may cause or worsen congestive heart failure (condition in which the heart is unable to pump enough blood to the other parts of the body). Before you start to take rosiglitazone, tell your doctor if you have or have ever had congestive heart failure, especially if your heart failure is so severe that you must limit your activity and are only comfortable when you are at rest or you must remain in a chair or bed. Also tell your doctor if you were born with a heart defect, and if you have or have ever had swelling of the arms, hands, feet, ankles, or lower legs; heart disease, high blood pressure; coronary artery disease (narrowing of the blood vessels that lead to the heart); a heart attack; an irregular heartbeat; or sleep apnea. Your doctor may tell you not to take rosiglitazone or may monitor you carefully during your treatment. If you develop congestive heart failure, you may experience certain symptoms. Tell your doctor immediately if you have any of the following symptoms, especially when you first start taking rosiglitazone or after your dose is increased: large weight gain in a short period of time; shortness of breath; swelling of the arms, hands, feet, ankles, or lower legs; swelling or pain in the stomach; waking up short of breath during the night; needing to sleep with extra pillows under your head in order to breathe while lying down; frequent dry cough or wheezing; difficulty thinking clearly or confusion; fast or racing heart beat; not able to walk or exercise as well; or increased tiredness. Your doctor or pharmacist will give you the manufacturer's patient information sheet (Medication Guide) when you begin treatment with rosiglitazone and each time you refill your prescription. Read the information carefully and ask your doctor or pharmacist if you have any questions. You can also visit the Food and Drug Administration (FDA) website ( http://www.fda.gov/Drugs ) or the manufacturer's website to obtain the Medication Guide. Talk to your doctor about the risks of taking rosiglitazone. Why is this medication prescribed? Rosiglitazone is used along with a diet and exercise program and sometimes with one or more other medications to treat type 2 diabetes (condition in which the body does not use insulin normally and therefore cannot control the amount of sugar in the blood). Rosiglitazone is in a class of medications called thiazolidinediones. It works by increasing the body's sensitivity to insulin, a natural substance that helps control blood sugar levels. Rosiglitazone is not used to treat type 1 diabetes (condition in which the body does not produce insulin and therefore cannot control the amount of sugar in the blood) or diabetic ketoacidosis (a serious condition that may occur if high blood sugar is not treated). Over time, people who have diabetes and high blood sugar can develop serious or life-threatening complications, including heart disease, stroke, kidney problems, nerve damage, and eye problems. Taking medication(s), making lifestyle changes (e.g., diet, exercise, quitting smoking), and regularly checking your blood sugar may help to manage your diabetes and improve your health. This therapy may also decrease your chances of having a heart attack, stroke, or other diabetes-related complications such as kidney failure, nerve damage (numb, cold legs or feet; decreased sexual ability in men and women), eye problems, including changes or loss of vision, or gum disease. Your doctor and other healthcare providers will talk to you about the best way to manage your diabetes. How should this medicine be used? Rosiglitazone comes as a tablet to take by mouth. It is usually taken once or twice daily with or without meals. Take rosiglitazone at about the same time(s) every day. Follow the directions on your prescription label carefully, and ask your doctor or pharmacist to explain any part you do not understand. Take rosiglitazone exactly as directed. Do not take more or less of it or take it more often than prescribed by your doctor. Your doctor may increase your dose of rosiglitazone after 8-12 weeks, based on your body's response to the medication. Rosiglitazone helps control type 2 diabetes but does not cure it. It may take 2 weeks for your blood sugar to decrease, and 2-3 months or longer for you to feel the full benefit of rosiglitazone. Continue to take rosiglitazone even if you feel well. Do not stop taking rosiglitazone without talking to your doctor. Other uses for this medicine This medication may be prescribed for other uses; ask your doctor or pharmacist for more information. What special precautions should I follow? Before taking rosiglitazone, tell your doctor and pharmacist if you are allergic to rosiglitazone, any other medications, or any of the ingredients in rosiglitazone tablets. Ask your pharmacist or check the Medication Guide for a list of the ingredients. tell your doctor and pharmacist what prescription and nonprescription medications, vitamins, nutritional supplements, and herbal products you are taking or plan to take. Be sure to mention any of the following: gemfibrozil (Lopid); insulin or other medications for diabetes; medications for high blood pressure, high cholesterol, heart failure, or prevention of heart attack or stroke; and rifampin (Rifadin, Rimactane, in Rifamate). Your doctor may need to change the doses of your medications or monitor you carefully for side effects. tell your doctor if you have or have ever had any of the conditions mentioned in the IMPORTANT WARNING section or diabetic eye disease such as macular edema (swelling of the back of the eye); or liver disease. Also tell your doctor if you have ever taken troglitazone (Rezulin, no longer available in the United States), especially if you stopped taking it because you experienced side effects. tell your doctor if you are pregnant, plan to become pregnant, or are breast-feeding. If you become pregnant while taking rosiglitazone, call your doctor. if you have not yet experienced menopause (change of life; end of monthly menstrual periods) you should know that rosiglitazone may increase the chance that you will become pregnant even if you do not have regular monthly periods or you have a condition that prevents you from ovulating (releasing an egg from the ovaries). Talk to your doctor about methods of birth control that will work for you. What special dietary instructions should I follow? Be sure to follow all exercise and dietary recommendations made by your doctor or dietitian. It is important to eat a healthy diet, exercise regularly, and lose weight if necessary. This will help to control your diabetes and help rosiglitazone work more effectively What should I do if I forget a dose? Take the missed dose as soon as you remember it. However, if it is time for the next dose, skip the missed dose and continue your regular dosing schedule. Do not take a double dose to make up for a missed one. What side effects can this medication cause? This medication may cause changes in your blood sugar. You should know the symptoms of low and high blood sugar and what to do if you have these symptoms. Rosiglitazone may cause side effects. Tell your doctor if any of these symptoms are severe or do not go away: headache runny nose and other cold symptoms sore throat back pain Some side effects can be serious. If you experience any of the following symptoms, or those listed in the IMPORTANT WARNING section, call your doctor immediately: pain in the jaw, arm, back, neck, or stomach chest pain breaking out in a cold sweat lightheadedness loss of appetite nausea vomiting stomach pain dark urine yellowing of the skin or eyes changes in vision vision loss pale skin dizziness swelling of the eyes, face, lips, tongue, or throat hoarseness difficulty swallowing or breathing hives itching fever blisters Rosiglitazone may cause other side effects. Call your doctor if you experience any unusual problems while you are taking this medication. Taking rosiglitazone may increase the risk that you will experience a fracture, usually in the upper arms, hands, or feet. Talk to your doctor about the risk of taking this medication and about ways to keep your bones healthy during your treatment. If you experience a serious side effect, you or your doctor may send a report to the Food and Drug Administration's (FDA) MedWatch Adverse Event Reporting program online ( http://www.fda.gov/Safety/MedWatch ) or by phone (1-800-332-1088). What should I know about storage and disposal of this medication? Keep this medication in the container it came in, tightly closed, and out of reach of children. Store it at room temperature and away from light, excess heat, and moisture (not in the bathroom). It is important to keep all medication out of sight and reach of children as many containers (such as weekly pill minders and those for eye drops, creams, patches, and inhalers) are not child-resistant and young children can open them easily. To protect young children from poisoning, always lock safety caps and immediately place the medication in a safe location – one that is up and away and out of their sight and reach. http://www.upandaway.org Unneeded medications should be disposed of in special ways to ensure that pets, children, and other people cannot consume them. However, you should not flush this medication down the toilet. Instead, the best way to dispose of your medication is through a medicine take-back program. Talk to your pharmacist or contact your local garbage/recycling department to learn about take-back programs in your community. See the FDA's Safe Disposal of Medicines website ( http://goo.gl/c4Rm4p ) for more information if you do not have access to a take-back program. In case of emergency/overdose In case of overdose, call the poison control helpline at 1-800-222-1222. Information is also available online at https://www.poisonhelp.org/help . If the victim has collapsed, had a seizure, has trouble breathing, or can't be awakened, immediately call emergency services at 911. What other information should I know? Keep all appointments with your doctor, your eye doctor, and the laboratory. Your doctor will probably order regular eye examinations and certain laboratory tests to check your body's response to rosiglitazone. Your blood sugar and glycosylated hemoglobin should be checked regularly to determine your response to rosiglitazone. Your doctor may also tell you how to check your response to rosiglitazone by measuring your blood sugar levels at home. Follow these directions carefully. You should always wear a diabetic identification bracelet to be sure you get proper treatment in an emergency. Do not let anyone else take your medication. Ask your pharmacist any questions you have about refilling your prescription. It is important for you to keep a written list of all of the prescription and nonprescription (over-the-counter) medicines you are taking, as well as any products such as vitamins, minerals, or other dietary supplements. You should bring this list with you each time you visit a doctor or if you are admitted to a hospital. It is also important information to carry with you in case of emergencies. Brand names Avandia ®



[ Irbesartan pronounced as (ir be sar' tan) To use the sharing features on this page, please enable JavaScript. Why is this medication prescribed? How should this medicine be used? Other uses for this medicine What special precautions should I follow? What special dietary instructions should I follow? What should I do if I forget a dose? What side effects can this medication cause? What should I know about storage and disposal of this medication? In case of emergency/overdose What other information should I know? Brand names IMPORTANT WARNING: Tell your doctor if you are pregnant or plan to become pregnant. Do not take irbesartan if you are pregnant. If you become pregnant while you are taking irbesartan, stop taking irbesartan and call your doctor immediately. Irbesartan may cause death or serious injury to the fetus when taken in the last 6 months of pregnancy. Why is this medication prescribed? Irbesartan is used alone or in combination with other medications to treat high blood pressure. It is also used to treat kidney disease caused by diabetes in patients with type 2 diabetes (condition in which the body does not use insulin normally and therefore cannot control the amount of sugar in the blood) and high blood pressure. Irbesartan is in a class of medications called angiotensin II receptor antagonists. It works by blocking the action of certain natural substances that tighten the blood vessels, allowing the blood to flow more smoothly and the heart to pump more efficiently. High blood pressure is a common condition, and when not treated it can cause damage to the brain, heart, blood vessels, kidneys, and other parts of the body. Damage to these organs may cause heart disease, a heart attack, heart failure, stroke, kidney failure, loss of vision, and other problems. In addition to taking medication, making lifestyle changes will also help to control your blood pressure. These changes include eating a diet that is low in fat and salt, maintaining a healthy weight, exercising at least 30 minutes most days, not smoking, and using alcohol in moderation. How should this medicine be used? Irbesartan comes as a tablet to take by mouth. It is usually taken once a day with or without food. To help you remember to take irbesartan, take it at around the same time every day. Follow the directions on your prescription label carefully, and ask your doctor or pharmacist to explain any part you do not understand. Take irbesartan exactly as directed. Do not take more or less of it or take it more often than prescribed by your doctor. Your doctor may start you on a low dose of irbesartan and gradually increase your dose. Irbesartan controls high blood pressure but does not cure it. It may take 2 weeks for you to notice the full benefit of irbesartan. Continue to take irbesartan even if you feel well. Do not stop taking irbesartan without talking to your doctor. Other uses for this medicine Irbesartan is also used sometimes to treat heart failure (condition in which the heart is unable to pump enough blood to the rest of the body). Talk to your doctor about the possible risks of using this medication for your condition. This medication may be prescribed for other uses; ask your doctor or pharmacist for more information. What special precautions should I follow? Before taking irbesartan, tell your doctor and pharmacist if you are allergic to irbesartan, any other medications, or any of the ingredients in irbesartan tablets. Ask your pharmacist for a list of the ingredients. tell your doctor if you have diabetes (high blood sugar) and you are taking aliskiren (Tekturna, in Amturnide, Tekamlo, Tekturna HCT). Your doctor will probably tell you not to take irbesartan if you have diabetes and you are also taking aliskiren. tell your doctor and pharmacist what other prescription and nonprescription medications, vitamins, nutritional supplements, and herbal products you are taking or plan to take. Be sure to mention any of the following: angiotensin-converting enzyme (ACE) inhibitors such as benazepril (Lotensin, in Lotrel), captopril (Capoten, in Capozide), enalapril (Vasotec), fosinopril, lisinopril (in Prinzide, in Zestoretic), moexipril (Univasc, in Uniretic), perindopril (Aceon), quinapril (Accupril, in Accuretic, in Quinaretic), ramipril (Altace), and trandolapril (Mavik, in Tarka); aspirin and other nonsteroidal anti-inflammatory medications (NSAIDs) such as ibuprofen (Advil, Motrin), naproxen (Aleve, Naprosyn), and selective COX-2 inhibitors such as celecoxib (Celebrex); diuretics ('water pills'); and potassium supplements.. Your doctor may need to change the doses of your medications or monitor you carefully for side effects. tell your doctor if you have or have ever had heart failure, or kidney disease. tell your doctor if you are breastfeeding. you should know that irbesartan may cause dizziness, lightheadedness, and fainting when you get up too quickly from a lying position. This is more common when you first start taking irbesartan. To help avoid this problem, get out of bed slowly, resting your feet on the floor for a few minutes before standing up. you should know that diarrhea, vomiting, not drinking enough fluids, and sweating a lot can cause a drop in blood pressure, which may cause lightheadedness and fainting. Tell your doctor if you have any of these problems or develop them during your treatment. What special dietary instructions should I follow? Do not use salt substitutes containing potassium without talking to your doctor. If your doctor prescribes a low-salt or low-sodium diet, follow these directions carefully. What should I do if I forget a dose? Take the missed dose as soon as you remember it. However, if it is almost time for your next dose, skip the missed dose and continue your regular dosing schedule. Do not take a double dose to make up for a missed one. What side effects can this medication cause? Irbesartan may cause side effects. Tell your doctor if any of these symptoms are severe or do not go away: diarrhea heartburn excessive tiredness Some side effects can be serious. If you experience any of these symptoms or those listed in the SPECIAL PRECAUTIONS section, call your doctor immediately: swelling of the face, throat, tongue, lips, eyes, hands, feet, ankles, or lower legs hoarseness difficulty breathing or swallowing Irbesartan may cause other side effects. Call your doctor if you have any unusual problems while taking this medication. If you experience a serious side effect, you or your doctor may send a report to the Food and Drug Administration's (FDA) MedWatch Adverse Event Reporting program online ( http://www.fda.gov/Safety/MedWatch ) or by phone (1-800-332-1088). What should I know about storage and disposal of this medication? Keep this medication in the container it came in, tightly closed, and out of reach of children. Store it at room temperature and away from excess heat and moisture (not in the bathroom). It is important to keep all medication out of sight and reach of children as many containers (such as weekly pill minders and those for eye drops, creams, patches, and inhalers) are not child-resistant and young children can open them easily. To protect young children from poisoning, always lock safety caps and immediately place the medication in a safe location – one that is up and away and out of their sight and reach. http://www.upandaway.org Unneeded medications should be disposed of in special ways to ensure that pets, children, and other people cannot consume them. However, you should not flush this medication down the toilet. Instead, the best way to dispose of your medication is through a medicine take-back program. Talk to your pharmacist or contact your local garbage/recycling department to learn about take-back programs in your community. See the FDA's Safe Disposal of Medicines website ( http://goo.gl/c4Rm4p ) for more information if you do not have access to a take-back program. In case of emergency/overdose In case of overdose, call the poison control helpline at 1-800-222-1222. Information is also available online at https://www.poisonhelp.org/help . If the victim has collapsed, had a seizure, has trouble breathing, or can't be awakened, immediately call emergency services at 911. Symptoms of overdose may include the following: dizziness fainting fast or slow heartbeat What other information should I know? Keep all appointments with your doctor and the laboratory. Your blood pressure should be checked regularly to determine your response to irbesartan. Do not let anyone else take your medication. Ask your pharmacist any questions you have about refilling your prescription. It is important for you to keep a written list of all of the prescription and nonprescription (over-the-counter) medicines you are taking, as well as any products such as vitamins, minerals, or other dietary supplements. You should bring this list with you each time you visit a doctor or if you are admitted to a hospital. It is also important information to carry with you in case of emergencies. Brand names Avapro ®















[ Estrogen and Progestin (Oral Contraceptives) pronounced as (ess' troe jen) (proe jes tin) To use the sharing features on this page, please enable JavaScript. Why is this medication prescribed? How should this medicine be used? Other uses for this medicine What special precautions should I follow? What special dietary instructions should I follow? What should I do if I forget a dose? What side effects can this medication cause? What should I know about storage and disposal of this medication? In case of emergency/overdose What other information should I know? Other names IMPORTANT WARNING: Cigarette smoking increases the risk of serious side effects from oral contraceptives, including heart attacks, blood clots, and strokes. This risk is higher for women over 35 years of age and heavy smokers (15 or more cigarettes per day). If you take oral contraceptives, you should not smoke. Why is this medication prescribed? Oral contraceptives (birth-control pills) are used to prevent pregnancy. Estrogen and progestin are two female sex hormones. Combinations of estrogen and progestin work by preventing ovulation (the release of eggs from the ovaries). They also change the lining of the uterus (womb) to prevent pregnancy from developing and change the mucus at the cervix (opening of the uterus) to prevent sperm (male reproductive cells) from entering. Oral contraceptives are a very effective method of birth control, but they do not prevent the spread of human immunodeficiency virus (HIV, the virus that causes acquired immunodeficiency syndrome [AIDS]) and other sexually transmitted diseases. Some brands of oral contraceptives are also used to treat acne in certain patients. Oral contraceptives treat acne by decreasing the amounts of certain natural substances that can cause acne. Some oral contraceptives (Beyaz, Yaz) are also used to relieve the symptoms of premenstrual dysphoric disorder (physical and emotional symptoms that occur before the menstrual period each month) in women who have chosen to use an oral contraceptive to prevent pregnancy. How should this medicine be used? Oral contraceptives come in packets of 21, 28, or 91 tablets to take by mouth once a day, every day or almost every day of a regular cycle. To avoid nausea, take oral contraceptives with food or milk. Take your oral contraceptive at the same time every day. Follow the directions on your prescription label carefully, and ask your doctor or pharmacist to explain any part you do not understand. Take your oral contraceptive exactly as directed. Do not take more or less of it, take it more often, or take it for a longer time than prescribed by your doctor. Oral contraceptives come in many different brands. Different brands of oral contraceptives contain slightly different medications or doses, are taken in slightly different ways, and have different risks and benefits. Be sure that you know which brand of oral contraceptives you are using and exactly how you should use it. Ask your doctor or pharmacist for a copy of the manufacturer's information for the patient and read it carefully. If you have a 21-tablet packet, take 1 tablet daily for 21 days and then none for 7 days. Then start a new packet. If you have a 28-tablet packet, take 1 tablet daily for 28 days in a row in the order specified in your packet. Start a new packet the day after you take your 28th tablet. The tablets in most 28-tablet packets may have different colors. Many 28-tablet packets have certain color tablets that contain different amounts of estrogen and progestin, but also may have other color tablets which contain an inactive ingredient or a folate supplement. If you have a 91-day tablet packet, take 1 tablet daily for 91 days. Your packet will contain three trays of tablets. Start with the first tablet on the first tray and continue taking 1 tablet every day in the order specified on the packet until you have taken all of the tablets on all of the trays. The last set of tablets are a different color. These tablets may contain an inactive ingredient, or they may contain a very low dose of estrogen. Start your new packet the day after you take your 91st tablet. Your doctor will tell you when you should start taking your oral contraceptive. Oral contraceptives are usually started on the first or fifth day of your menstrual period or on the first Sunday after or on which bleeding begins. Your doctor will also tell you whether you need to use another method of birth control during the first 7 to 9 days that you take your oral contraceptive and will help you choose a method. Follow these directions carefully. You will probably experience withdrawal bleeding similar to a menstrual period while you are taking the inactive tablets or the low dose estrogen tablets or during the week that you do not take your oral contraceptive. If you are taking the type of packet that only contains active tablets, you will not experience any scheduled bleeding, but you may experience unexpected bleeding and spotting, especially at the beginning of your treatment. Be sure to start taking your new packet on schedule even if you are still bleeding. You may need to use a backup method of birth control if you vomit or have diarrhea while you are taking an oral contraceptive. Talk to your doctor about this before you begin to take your oral contraceptive so that you can prepare a backup method of birth control in case it is needed. If you vomit or have diarrhea while you are taking an oral contraceptive, call your doctor to find out how long you should use the backup method. If you have recently given birth, wait until 4 weeks after delivery to begin taking oral contraceptives. If you have had an abortion or miscarriage, talk to your doctor about when you should begin taking oral contraceptives. Oral contraceptives will work only as long as they are taken regularly. Continue to take oral contraceptives every day even if you are spotting or bleeding, have an upset stomach, or do not think that you are likely to become pregnant. Do not stop taking oral contraceptives without talking to your doctor. Other uses for this medicine Oral contraceptives are also sometimes used to treat heavy or irregular menstruation and endometriosis (a condition in which the type of tissue that lines the uterus [womb] grows in other areas of the body and causes pain, heavy or irregular menstruation [periods], and other symptoms). Talk to your doctor about the risks of using this medication for your condition. This medication may be prescribed for other uses; ask your doctor or pharmacist for more information. What special precautions should I follow? Before taking oral contraceptives, tell your doctor and pharmacist if you are allergic to estrogen, progestin, or any other medications. tell your doctor and pharmacist what prescription and nonprescription medications, vitamins, and nutritional supplements you are taking. Be sure to mention any of the following: acetaminophen (APAP, Tylenol); antibiotics such as ampicillin (Principen), clarithromycin (Biaxin),erythromycin (E.E.S., E-Mycin, Erythrocin), isoniazid (INH, Nydrazid), metronidazole (Flagyl),minocycline (Dynacin, Minocin), rifabutin (Mycobutin), rifampin (Rifadin, Rimactane), tetracycline (Sumycin), and troleandomycin (TAO) (not available in the U.S.); anticoagulants ('blood thinners') such as warfarin (Coumadin); antifungals such as griseofulvin (Fulvicin, Grifulvin, Grisactin), fluconazole (Diflucan), itraconazole (Sporanox), and ketoconazole (Nizoral); atorvastatin (Lipitor); clofibrate (Atromid-S); cyclosporine (Neoral, Sandimmune); bosentan (Tracleer); cimetidine (Tagamet); danazol (Danocrine); delavirdine (Rescriptor); diltiazem (Cardizem, Dilacor, Tiazac); fluoxetine (Prozac, Sarafem, in Symbyax); HIV protease inhibitors such as indinavir (Crixivan) and ritonavir (Norvir); medications for seizures such as carbamazepine (Tegretol), felbamate (Felbatol), lamotrigine (Lamictal), oxcarbazepine (Trileptal), phenobarbital (Luminal, Solfoton), phenytoin (Dilantin), primidone (Mysoline), and topiramate (Topamax); modafinil (Provigil); morphine (Kadian, MS Contin, MSIR, others); nefazodone; rifampin (Rimactane, in Rifadin, in Rifater); oral steroids such as dexamethasone (Decadron, Dexone), methylprednisolone (Medrol), prednisone (Deltasone), and prednisolone (Prelone); temazepam (Restoril); theophylline (Theobid, Theo-Dur); thyroid medication such as levothyroxine (Levothroid, Levoxyl, Synthroid); verapamil (Calan, Covera, Isoptin, Verelan); vitamin C; and zafirlukast (Accolate). Your doctor may need to change the doses of your medications or monitor you carefully for side effects. if you are taking oral contraceptives that contain drosperinone (Beyaz, Gianvi, Loryna, Ocella, Safyral, Syeda, Yasmin, Yaz, and Zarah) tell your doctor and pharmacist if you are taking any of the medications listed above or any of the following: angiotensin-converting enzyme (ACE) inhibitors such as benazepril (Lotensin), enalapril (Vasotec), and lisinopril (Prinivil, Zestril); angiotensin II antagonists such as irbesartan (Avapro), losartan (Cozaar), and valsartan (Diovan); aspirin and other nonsteroidal anti-inflammatory drugs (NSAIDs) such as ibuprofen (Advil, Motrin) and naproxen (Aleve, Naprosyn); diuretics ('water pills') such as amiloride (Midamor), spironolactone (Aldactone), and triamterene (Dyrenium); eplerenone (Inspra); heparin; or potassium supplements. Before taking Beyaz or Safyral, also tell your doctor or pharmacist if you are taking cholestyramine (Locholest, Prevalite, Questran), a folate supplement, methotrexate (Trexall), pyrimethamine (Daraprim), sulfasalazine (Azulfidine), or valproic acid (Depakene, Stavzor). tell your doctor what herbal products you are taking, especially St. John's wort. tell your doctor if you have or have ever had blood clots in your legs, lungs, or eyes; thrombophilia (condition in which the blood clots easily); coronary artery disease (clogged blood vessels leading to the heart); cerebrovascular disease (clogging or weakening of the blood vessels within the brain or leading to the brain); stroke or mini-stroke; an irregular heartbeat; heart disease; a heart attack; chest pain; diabetes that has affected your circulation; headaches that come along with other symptoms such as vision changes, weakness, and dizziness; high blood pressure; breast cancer; cancer of the lining of the uterus, cervix, or vagina; liver cancer, liver tumors, or other types of liver disease; yellowing of the skin or eyes during pregnancy or while you were using hormonal contraceptives (birth control pills, patches, rings, implants, or injections); unexplained abnormal vaginal bleeding; adrenal insufficiency (condition in which the body does not produce enough of certain natural substances needed for important functions such as blood pressure); or kidney disease. Also tell your doctor if you have recently had surgery or have been unable to move around for any reason. Your doctor may tell you that you should not take certain types of oral contraceptives or that you should not take any type of oral contraceptive if you have or have had any of these conditions. Also tell your doctor if anyone in your family has had breast cancer, if you are overweight, and if you have or have ever had problems with your breasts such as lumps, an abnormal mammogram (breast x-ray), or fibrocystic breast disease (swollen, tender breasts and/or breast lumps that are not cancer); high blood cholesterol or fats; diabetes; asthma; toxemia (high blood pressure during pregnancy); heart attack; chest pain; seizures; migraine headaches; depression; gallbladder disease; jaundice (yellowing of the skin or eyes); and excessive weight gain and fluid retention (bloating) during the menstrual cycle. do not take oral contraceptives if you are pregnant, plan to become pregnant, or are breast-feeding. If you become pregnant while taking oral contraceptives, call your doctor immediately. if you miss periods while you are taking oral contraceptives, you may be pregnant. If you are using a 91-tablet packet and you miss one period, call your doctor. If you are using another type of packet according to the directions and you miss one period, you may continue to take your tablets. However, if you have not taken your tablets as directed and you miss one period or if you have taken your tablets as directed and you miss two periods, call your doctor and use another method of birth control until you have a pregnancy test. If you are using a 28-tablet packet that contains only active tablets, you will not expect to have periods on a regular basis, so it may be hard to tell if you are pregnant. If you are using this type of oral contraceptive, call your doctor and have a pregnancy test if you experience symptoms of pregnancy such as nausea, vomiting, and breast tenderness, or if you suspect you may be pregnant. if you are having surgery, including dental surgery, tell the doctor or dentist that you are taking oral contraceptives. you should know that oral contraceptives may cause a spotty darkening of the skin, especially on the face. If you have experienced changes in your skin color during pregnancy or while you were taking oral contraceptives in the past, you should avoid exposure to real or artificial sunlight while you are taking oral contraceptives. Wear protective clothing, sunglasses, and sunscreen. tell your doctor and pharmacist if you wear contact lenses. If you notice changes in vision or ability to wear your lenses while taking oral contraceptives, see an eye doctor. What special dietary instructions should I follow? Unless your doctor tells you otherwise, continue your normal diet. What should I do if I forget a dose? If you miss doses of your oral contraceptive, you may not be protected from pregnancy. You may need to use a backup method of birth control for 7 to 9 days or until the end of the cycle. Every brand of oral contraceptives comes with specific directions to follow if you miss one or more doses. Carefully read the directions in the manufacturer's information for the patient that came with your oral contraceptive. If you have any questions, call your doctor or pharmacist. Continue to take your tablets as scheduled and use a backup method of birth control until your questions are answered. What side effects can this medication cause? Oral contraceptives may cause side effects. Tell your doctor if any of these symptoms are severe or do not go away: nausea vomiting stomach cramps or bloating diarrhea constipation gingivitis (swelling of the gum tissue) increased or decreased appetite weight gain or weight loss brown or black skin patches acne hair growth in unusual places bleeding or spotting between menstrual periods changes in menstrual flow painful or missed periods breast tenderness, enlargement, or discharge swelling, redness, irritation, burning, or itching of the vagina white vaginal discharge Some side effects can be serious. The following symptoms are uncommon, but if you experience any of them, call your doctor immediately: severe headache severe vomiting speech problems dizziness or faintness weakness or numbness of an arm or leg crushing chest pain or chest heaviness coughing up blood shortness of breath leg pain partial or complete loss of vision double vision bulging eyes severe stomach pain yellowing of the skin or eyes loss of appetite extreme tiredness, weakness, or lack of energy fever dark-colored urine light-colored stool swelling of the hands, feet, ankles, or lower legs depression, especially if you also have trouble sleeping, tiredness, loss of energy, or other mood changes unusual bleeding rash menstrual bleeding that is unusually heavy or that lasts for longer than 7 days in a row Oral contraceptives may increase the chance that you will develop liver tumors. These tumors are not a form of cancer, but they can break and cause serious bleeding inside the body. Oral contraceptives may also increase the chance that you will develop breast or liver cancer, or have a heart attack, a stroke, or a serious blood clot. Talk to your doctor about the risks of using oral contraceptives. Some studies show that women who take oral contraceptives that contain drosperinone (Beyaz, Gianvi, Loryna, Ocella, Safyral, Syeda, Yasmin, Yaz, and Zarah) may be more likely to develop deep vein thrombosis (a serious or life-threatening condition in which blood clots that form in the veins, usually in the legs and may move through the body to the lungs) than women who take oral contraceptives that do not contain drosperinone. However, other studies do not show this increased risk. Before you begin taking oral contraceptives, talk to your doctor about the risk that you will develop blood clots and about which oral contraceptive or other method of birth control may be the best choice for you. Oral contraceptives may cause other side effects. Call your doctor if you have any unusual problems while taking this medication. If you experience a serious side effect, you or your doctor may send a report to the Food and Drug Administration's (FDA) MedWatch Adverse Event Reporting program online ( http://www.fda.gov/Safety/MedWatch ) or by phone (1-800-332-1088). What should I know about storage and disposal of this medication? Keep this medication in the packet it came in, tightly closed, and out of reach of children. Store it at room temperature and away from excess heat and moisture (not in the bathroom). Unneeded medications should be disposed of in special ways to ensure that pets, children, and other people cannot consume them. However, you should not flush this medication down the toilet. Instead, the best way to dispose of your medication is through a medicine take-back program. Talk to your pharmacist or contact your local garbage/recycling department to learn about take-back programs in your community. See the FDA's Safe Disposal of Medicines website ( http://goo.gl/c4Rm4p ) for more information if you do not have access to a take-back program. It is important to keep all medication out of sight and reach of children as many containers (such as weekly pill minders and those for eye drops, creams, patches, and inhalers) are not child-resistant and young children can open them easily. To protect young children from poisoning, always lock safety caps and immediately place the medication in a safe location – one that is up and away and out of their sight and reach. http://www.upandaway.org In case of emergency/overdose In case of overdose, call the poison control helpline at 1-800-222-1222. Information is also available online at https://www.poisonhelp.org/help . If the victim has collapsed, had a seizure, has trouble breathing, or can't be awakened, immediately call emergency services at 911. Symptoms of overdose may include: nausea vaginal bleeding What other information should I know? Keep all appointments with your doctor and the laboratory. You should have a complete physical examination every year, including blood pressure measurements, breast and pelvic exams, and a Pap test. Follow your doctor's directions for examining your breasts; report any lumps immediately. Before you have any laboratory tests, tell the laboratory personnel that you take oral contraceptives. If you wish to stop taking oral contraceptives and become pregnant, your doctor may tell you to use another method of birth control until you begin to menstruate regularly again. It may take a long time for you to become pregnant after you stop taking oral contraceptives, especially if you have never had a baby or if you had irregular, infrequent, or complete absence of menstrual periods before taking oral contraceptives. However, it is possible to become pregnant within days of stopping certain oral contraceptives. If you want to stop taking oral contraceptives but do not want to become pregnant, you should begin using another type of birth control as soon as you stop taking oral contraceptives. Discuss any questions that you may have with your doctor. Oral contraceptives may decrease the amount of folate in your body. Folate is important for the development of a healthy baby, so you should talk to your doctor if you want to become pregnant soon after you stop taking oral contraceptives. Your doctor may recommend that you take a folate supplement or an oral contraceptive that contains a folate supplement (Beyaz, Safyral). Do not let anyone else take your medication. Ask your pharmacist any questions you have about refilling your prescription. It is important for you to keep a written list of all of the prescription and nonprescription (over-the-counter) medicines you are taking, as well as any products such as vitamins, minerals, or other dietary supplements. You should bring this list with you each time you visit a doctor or if you are admitted to a hospital. It is also important information to carry with you in case of emergencies.

[ Morphine pronounced as (mor' feen) To use the sharing features on this page, please enable JavaScript. Why is this medication prescribed? How should this medicine be used? Other uses for this medicine What special precautions should I follow? What special dietary instructions should I follow? What should I do if I forget a dose? What side effects can this medication cause? What should I know about storage and disposal of this medication? In case of emergency/overdose What other information should I know? Brand names IMPORTANT WARNING: Morphine may be habit forming, especially with prolonged use. Take morphine exactly as directed. Do not take more of it, take it more often, or take it in a different way than directed by your doctor. While you are taking morphine, discuss with your healthcare provider your pain treatment goals, length of treatment, and other ways to manage your pain. Tell your doctor if you or anyone in your family drinks or has ever drunk large amounts of alcohol, uses or has ever used street drugs, or has overused prescription medications, or has had an overdose, or if you have or have ever had depression or another mental illness. There is a greater risk that you will overuse morphine if you have or have ever had any of these conditions. Talk to your healthcare provider immediately and ask for guidance if you think that you have an opioid addiction or call the U.S. Substance Abuse and Mental Health Services Administration (SAMHSA) National Helpline at 1-800-662-HELP. Morphine may cause serious or life-threatening breathing problems, especially during the first 24 to 72 hours of your treatment and any time your dose is increased. Your doctor will monitor you carefully during your treatment. Your doctor will adjust your dose carefully to control your pain and decrease the risk that you will experience serious breathing problems. Tell your doctor if you have or have ever had slowed breathing or asthma. Your doctor may tell you not to take morphine. Also tell your doctor if you have or have ever had lung disease such as chronic obstructive pulmonary disease (COPD; a group of lung diseases that includes chronic bronchitis and emphysema), a head injury, a brain tumor, or any condition that increases the amount of pressure in your brain. The risk that you will develop breathing problems may be higher if you are an older adult or are weakened or malnourished due to disease. If you experience any of the following symptoms, call your doctor immediately or get emergency medical treatment: slowed breathing, long pauses between breaths, or shortness of breath. Do not allow anyone else to take your medication. Morphine may harm or cause death to other people who take your medication, especially children. Keep morphine in a safe place so that no one else can take it accidentally or on purpose. Be especially careful to keep morphine out of the reach of children. Keep track of how many tablets or capsules, or how much liquid is left so you will know if any medication is missing. Dispose of any unneeded morphine tablets, capsules, or liquid properly according to instructions. (See STORAGE and DISPOSAL.) Taking certain other medications during your treatment with morphine may increase the risk that you will experience breathing problems or other serious, life-threatening breathing problems, sedation, or coma. Tell your doctor and pharmacist what prescription and nonprescription medications, vitamins, nutritional supplements, and herbal products you are taking or plan to take. If you take morphine with other medications and you develop any of the following symptoms, call your doctor immediately or seek emergency medical care: unusual dizziness, lightheadedness, extreme sleepiness, slowed or difficult breathing, or unresponsiveness. Be sure that your caregiver or family members know which symptoms may be serious so they can call the doctor or emergency medical care if you are unable to seek treatment on your own. Drinking alcohol, taking prescription or nonprescription medications that contain alcohol, or using street drugs during your treatment with morphine increases the risk that you will experience breathing problems or other serious, life-threatening side effects. If you are taking long-acting capsules, it is especially important that you do not drink any drinks that contain alcohol or take any prescription or nonprescription medications that contain alcohol. Alcohol may cause the morphine in long-acting capsules to be released in your body too quickly, causing serious health problems or death. Do not drink alcohol, take any prescription or nonprescription medications that contain alcohol, or use street drugs during your treatment with morphine products. Swallow the extended-release tablets or capsules whole. Do not split, chew, dissolve, or crush them. If you swallow broken, chewed, crushed, or dissolved extended-release tablets or capsules, you may receive too much morphine at once instead of receiving the medication slowly over time. This may cause serious breathing problems or death. If you are unable to swallow the capsules whole, follow the instructions in the ''HOW should this medication be used?'' section below to dissolve the capsule contents in applesauce. Morphine oral solution (liquid) comes in three different concentrations (amount of medication contained in a given amount of solution). The solution with the highest concentration (100 mg/5 mL) should only be taken by people who are tolerant (used to the effects of the medication) to opioid medications. Each time you receive your medication, check to be sure that you receive the solution with the concentration prescribed by your doctor. Be sure that you know how much medication you should take and how to measure your dose. Tell your doctor if you are pregnant or plan to become pregnant. If you take morphine regularly during your pregnancy, your baby may experience life-threatening withdrawal symptoms after birth. Tell your baby's doctor right away if your baby experiences any of the following symptoms: irritability, hyperactivity, abnormal sleep, high-pitched cry, uncontrollable shaking of a part of the body, vomiting, diarrhea, or failure to gain weight. Your doctor or pharmacist will give you the manufacturer's patient information sheet (Medication Guide) when you begin treatment with morphine and each time you fill your prescription if a Medication Guide is available for the morphine product you are taking. Read the information carefully and ask your doctor or pharmacist if you have any questions. You can also visit the Food and Drug Administration (FDA) website ( http://www.fda.gov/Drugs/DrugSafety/ucm085729.htm ) or the manufacturer's website to obtain the Medication Guide. Why is this medication prescribed? Morphine immediate-release tablets and oral solution are used to relieve severe, acute pain (pain that begins suddenly, has a specific cause, and is expected to go away when the cause of the pain is healed) and chronic pain in people who are expected to need an opioid pain medication and who cannot be treated with other pain medications. Morphine extended-release tablets and capsules are used to relieve severe and persistent pain in people who are expected to need an opioid pain medication around the clock and who cannot be treated with other pain medications. Morphine extended-release tablets and capsules should not be used to treat pain that can be controlled by medication that is taken as needed. Morphine is in a class of medications called opiate (narcotic) analgesics. It works by changing the way the brain and nervous system respond to pain. How should this medicine be used? Morphine comes as a solution (liquid), an immediate-release tablet, an extended-release (long-acting) tablet, and as an extended-release (long-acting) capsule to take by mouth. The oral solution and immediate-release tablets are usually taken every 4 hours as needed for pain. The extended-release tablets that are usually taken every 8 or every 12 hours. The extended-release capsules are usually taken with or without food every 12 hours or every 24 hours. Follow the directions on your prescription label carefully, and ask your doctor or pharmacist to explain any part you do not understand. If you are taking morphine solution, use the dosing cup or syringe that comes with the medication to measure your dose. Be sure that you know how many milliliters of the liquid you should take. Ask your pharmacist if you have any question about how much medication you should take or how to use the dosing cup or syringe. If you are taking extended-release capsules and you have a gastrostomy tube (surgically inserted feeding tube), ask your doctor or pharmacist how to administer the medication through your tube. If you are unable to swallow the extended-release capsules, you can carefully open a capsule, sprinkle all of the beads that it contains on a spoonful of cold or room temperature applesauce, and swallow the entire mixture immediately without chewing or crushing the beads. Then rinse your mouth with a little water and swallow the water to be sure that you have swallowed all the medication. Do not mix the beads into any other food. Do not save mixtures of medication and applesauce for later. Your doctor may adjust your dose of morphine during your treatment, depending on how well your pain is controlled and on the side effects that you experience. Talk to your doctor about how you are feeling during your treatment with morphine. Tell your doctor if you feel that your pain is not controlled or if your pain increases, becomes worse, or if you have new pain or an increased sensitivity to pain during your treatment with morphine. Do not take more of it or take it more often than prescribed by your doctor. Do not stop taking morphine without talking to your doctor. Your doctor may decrease your dose gradually. If you suddenly stop taking morphine, you may experience withdrawal symptoms such as restlessness; teary eyes; runny nose; yawning; irritability; anxiety; sweating; difficulty falling asleep or staying asleep; chills; back, muscle, or joint pain; nausea; vomiting; loss of appetite; diarrhea; stomach cramps; weakness; fast heartbeat; or fast breathing. Your doctor will probably decrease your dose gradually. Other uses for this medicine This medication is sometimes prescribed for other uses; ask your doctor or pharmacist for more information. What special precautions should I follow? Before taking morphine, tell your doctor and pharmacist if you are allergic to morphine, any other medications, or any of the inactive ingredients in the type of morphine product you plan to take. Ask your pharmacist or check the Medication Guide for a list of the inactive ingredients. tell your doctor or pharmacist if you are taking the following medications or have stopped taking them within the past two weeks: isocarboxazid (Marplan), linezolid (Zyvox), methylene blue, phenelzine (Nardil), selegiline (Emsam, Zelapar), or tranylcypromine (Parnate). tell your doctor if you have or have ever had any of the conditions mentioned in the IMPORTANT WARNING section, a blockage or narrowing of your stomach or intestines, or paralytic ileus (condition in which digested food does not move through the intestines). Your doctor may tell you not to take morphine. tell your doctor if you have or have ever had seizures; difficulty swallowing; problems urinating; low blood pressure; adrenal insufficiency (condition in which the adrenal glands do not produce enough of certain hormones needed for important body functions); or liver, kidney, pancreas, thyroid, or gallbladder disease. tell your doctor if you are breastfeeding. You should not breastfeed while you are taking morphine. Morphine can cause shallow breathing, difficulty or noisy breathing, confusion, more than usual sleepiness, trouble breastfeeding, or limpness in breastfed infants. you should know that this medication may decrease fertility in men and women. Talk to your doctor about the risks of taking morphine. if you are having surgery, including dental surgery, tell the doctor or dentist that you are taking morphine. you should know that this medication may make you drowsy. Do not drive a car or operate machinery until you know how this medication affects you. you should know that morphine may cause dizziness, lightheadedness, and fainting when you get up too quickly from a lying position. To avoid this problem, get out of bed slowly, resting your feet on the floor for a few minutes before standing up. you should know that morphine may cause constipation. Talk to your doctor about changing your diet or using other medications to prevent or treat constipation while you are taking morphine. What special dietary instructions should I follow? Unless your doctor tells you otherwise, continue your normal diet. What should I do if I forget a dose? If you are taking morphine tablets or liquid, your doctor will probably tell you to take the medication as needed. If you have been told to take scheduled doses of the tablets or liquid or if you are taking an extended-release product, take the missed dose as soon as you remember it, and do not take the next dose at your regularly scheduled time. Instead, allow the same amount of time that you usually allow between doses before taking your next dose. If you remember when it is almost time for the next dose, skip the missed dose and continue your regular dosing schedule. Do not take a double dose to make up for a missed one. What side effects can this medication cause? Morphine may cause side effects. Tell your doctor if any of these symptoms are severe or do not go away: drowsiness stomach pain and cramps dry mouth headache nervousness mood changes small pupils (black circles in the middle of the eyes difficulty urinating Some side effects can be serious. If you experience any of the following symptoms, call your doctor immediately: blue or purple color to the skin changes in heartbeat agitation, hallucinations (seeing things or hearing voices that do not exist), fever, sweating, confusion, fast heartbeat, shivering, severe muscle stiffness or twitching, loss of coordination, or diarrhea nausea, vomiting, loss of appetite, weakness, or dizziness inability to get or keep an erection irregular menstruation decreased sexual desire seizures extreme drowsiness fainting chest pain hives; rash; itching; swelling of the eyes, face, mouth, lips or throat; hoarseness; difficulty breathing or swallowing Morphine may cause other side effects. Call your doctor if you have any unusual problems while you are taking this medication. If you experience a serious side effect, you or your doctor may send a report to the Food and Drug Administration's (FDA) MedWatch Adverse Event Reporting program online ( http://www.fda.gov/Safety/MedWatch ) or by phone (1-800-332-1088). What should I know about storage and disposal of this medication? Keep this medication in the container it came in, tightly closed, and out of reach of children, and in a location that is not easily accessible by others, including visitors to the home. Store it at room temperature and away from excess heat and moisture (not in the bathroom). You must immediately dispose of any medication that is outdated or no longer needed through a medicine take-back program. If you do not have a take-back program nearby or one that you can access promptly, flush any morphine extended-release tablets, extended-release capsules, and liquid that are outdated or no longer needed down the toilet so that others will not take them. Talk to your pharmacist about the proper disposal of your medication. It is important to keep all medication out of sight and reach of children as many containers (such as weekly pill minders and those for eye drops, creams, patches, and inhalers) are not child-resistant and young children can open them easily. To protect young children from poisoning, always lock safety caps and immediately place the medication in a safe location – one that is up and away and out of their sight and reach. http://www.upandaway.org In case of emergency/overdose In case of overdose, call the poison control helpline at 1-800-222-1222. Information is also available online at https://www.poisonhelp.org/help . If the victim has collapsed, had a seizure, has trouble breathing, or can't be awakened, immediately call emergency services at 911. While taking morphine, you should talk to your doctor about having a rescue medication called naloxone readily available (e.g., home, office). Naloxone is used to reverse the life-threatening effects of an overdose. It works by blocking the effects of opiates to relieve dangerous symptoms caused by high levels of opiates in the blood. Your doctor may also prescribe you naloxone if you are living in a household where there are small children or someone who has abused street or prescription drugs. Ask your doctor about other ways that you can obtain naloxone (directly from a pharmacy or as part of a community based program). You should make sure that you and your family members, caregivers, or the people who spend time with you know how to recognize an overdose, how to use naloxone, and what to do until emergency medical help arrives. Your doctor or pharmacist will show you and your family members how to use the medication. Ask your pharmacist for the instructions or visit the manufacturer's website to get the instructions. If symptoms of an overdose occur, a friend or family member should give the first dose of naloxone, call 911 immediately, and stay with you and watch you closely until emergency medical help arrives. Your symptoms may return within a few minutes after you receive naloxone. If your symptoms return, the person should give you another dose of naloxone. Additional doses may be given every 2 to 3 minutes, if symptoms return before medical help arrives. Symptoms of overdose may include the following: slow, shallow, or irregular breathing difficulty breathing excessive sleepiness unable to respond or wake up limp or weak muscles cold, clammy skin narrowing or widening of the pupils (dark circle in the eye) slow heartbeat unusual snoring What other information should I know? Keep all appointments with your doctor and laboratory. Your doctor may order certain lab tests to check your body's response to morphine. Before having any laboratory test (especially those that involve methylene blue), tell your doctor and the laboratory personnel that you are taking morphine. This prescription is not refillable. If you are taking morphine to control your pain on a long term basis, be sure to schedule appointments with your doctor so that you do not run out of medication. If you are taking morphine on a short-term basis, call your doctor if you continue to experience pain after you finish the medication. It is important for you to keep a written list of all of the prescription and nonprescription (over-the-counter) medicines you are taking, as well as any products such as vitamins, minerals, or other dietary supplements. You should bring this list with you each time you visit a doctor or if you are admitted to a hospital. It is also important information to carry with you in case of emergencies. Brand names Arymo ® ER ¶ Avinza ® ¶ Kadian ® ¶ Morphabond ® ¶ MS Contin ® Oramorph ® SR ¶

[ Tretinoin Topical pronounced as (tret' i noyn) To use the sharing features on this page, please enable JavaScript. Why is this medication prescribed? How should this medicine be used? Other uses for this medicine What special precautions should I follow? What should I do if I forget a dose? What side effects can this medication cause? What should I know about storage and disposal of this medication? In case of emergency/overdose What other information should I know? Brand names Other names Why is this medication prescribed? Tretinoin (Altreno, Atralin, Avita, Retin-A) is used to treat acne. Tretinoin is also used to reduce fine wrinkles (Refissa and Renova) and to improve spotty discoloration (Renova) and rough feeling skin (Renova) when used along with other skin care and sunlight avoidance programs. Tretinoin is in a class of medications called retinoids. It works by promoting peeling of affected skin areas and unclogging pores. How should this medicine be used? Tretinoin comes as a lotion (Altreno), cream (Avita, Refissa, Renova, Retin-A), and gel (Atralin, Avita, Retin-A). Tretinoin usually is used daily at bedtime. Follow the directions on your prescription label carefully, and ask your doctor or pharmacist to explain any part you do not understand. Use tretinoin exactly as directed. Do not use more or less of it or use it more often than prescribed by your doctor. Tretinoin controls acne but does not cure it. Your acne probably will get worse (red, scaling skin and an increase in acne sores) during the first 7 to10 days that you use this medication. Nevertheless, continue to use it; the acne sores should disappear. Usually 2 to 3 weeks (and sometimes more than 6 weeks) of regular use of tretinoin is required before improvement is seen. Tretinoin may reduce fine wrinkles, spotty discoloration, and rough feeling skin but does not cure them. It may take 3 to 4 months or up to 6 months before you notice improvement. If you stop using tretinoin, the improvement may gradually disappear. Use only nonmedicated cosmetics on cleansed skin. Do not use topical preparations with a lot of alcohol, menthol, spices, or lime (e.g., shaving lotions, astringents, and perfumes); they can sting your skin, especially when you first use tretinoin. Do not use any other topical medications, especially benzoyl peroxide, hair removers, salicylic acid (wart remover), and dandruff shampoos containing sulfur or resorcinol unless your doctor directs you to do so. If you have used any of these topical medications recently, ask your doctor if you should wait before using tretinoin. Your doctor may tell you to use moisturizer to help with dryness. If you are to apply any form of tretinoin, follow these steps: Wash your hands and affected skin area thoroughly with mild, bland soap (not medicated or abrasive soap or soap that dries the skin) and water. To be sure that your skin is thoroughly dry, wait 20 to 30 minutes before applying tretinoin. Use clean fingertips to apply the medication. Use enough medication to cover the affected area with a thin layer. Apply the medication to the affected skin area only. Do not let tretinoin get into your eyes, ears, mouth, corners along your nose, or vaginal area. Do not apply on areas of sunburn. Ask your pharmacist or doctor for a copy of the manufacturer's information for the patient. Other uses for this medicine This medication may be prescribed for other uses; ask your doctor or pharmacist for more information. What special precautions should I follow? Before using tretinoin, tell your doctor and pharmacist if you are allergic to tretinoin, fish (if taking Altreno), any other medications, or any of the ingredients in tretinoin lotion, cream, or gel. Ask your pharmacist for a list of the ingredients.. tell your doctor and pharmacist what prescription and nonprescription medications, vitamins, nutritional supplements, and herbal products you are taking or plan to take. Be sure to mention any of the following: certain antibiotics such as tetracyclines; antihistamines; diuretics ('water pills'); fluoroquinolones such as ciprofloxacin (Cipro), delafloxacin (Baxdela), gemifloxacin (Factive), levofloxacin (Levaquin), moxifloxacin (Avelox), and ofloxacin; medications for mental illness and nausea; or sulfonamides such as co-trimoxazole (Bactrim, Septra), sulfadiazine, sulfamethizole (Urobiotic), and sulfisoxazole (Gantrisin). Your doctor may need to change the doses of your medications or monitor you carefully for side effects. tell your doctor if you have or have ever had eczema (a skin disease), actinic keratoses (scaly spots or patches on the top layer of the skin), skin cancer, or other skin conditions. tell your doctor if you are pregnant, plan to become pregnant, or are breastfeeding. If you become pregnant while using tretinoin, call your doctor. plan to avoid unnecessary or prolonged exposure to sunlight or ultraviolet light (tanning beds and sunlamps) and to wear protective clothing, sunglasses, and sunscreen. Tretinoin may make your skin sensitive to sunlight or ultraviolet light. you should know that weather extremes, such as wind and cold, may be particularly irritating. What should I do if I forget a dose? Apply the missed dose as soon as you remember it. However, if it is almost time for the next dose, skip the missed dose and continue your regular dosing schedule. Do not apply extra cream, lotion, or gel to make up for a missed dose. What side effects can this medication cause? Tretinoin may cause side effects. Tell your doctor if any of these symptoms are severe or do not go away: warmth or slight stinging of the skin lightening or darkening of the skin red, scaling skin increase in acne sores swelling, blistering, or crusting of the skin dryness, pain, burning, stinging, peeling, redness, or flaky skin at the treatment area Some side effects can be serious. If you experience any of these symptoms call your doctor immediately: itching hives pain or discomfort at the treatment area Tretinoin may cause other side effects. Call your doctor if you have any unusual problems while using this medication. If you experience a serious side effect, you or your doctor may send a report to the Food and Drug Administration's (FDA) MedWatch Adverse Event Reporting program online ( http://www.fda.gov/Safety/MedWatch ) or by phone (1-800-332-1088). What should I know about storage and disposal of this medication? Keep this medication in the container it came in, tightly closed, and out of reach of children. Store it at room temperature and away from excess heat and moisture (not in the bathroom). Do not allow the medication to freeze. Unneeded medications should be disposed of in special ways to ensure that pets, children, and other people cannot consume them. However, you should not flush this medication down the toilet. Instead, the best way to dispose of your medication is through a medicine take-back program. Talk to your pharmacist or contact your local garbage/recycling department to learn about take-back programs in your community. See the FDA's Safe Disposal of Medicines website ( http://goo.gl/c4Rm4p ) for more information if you do not have access to a take-back program. It is important to keep all medication out of sight and reach of children as many containers (such as weekly pill minders and those for eye drops, creams, patches, and inhalers) are not child-resistant and young children can open them easily. To protect young children from poisoning, always lock safety caps and immediately place the medication in a safe location – one that is up and away and out of their sight and reach. http://www.upandaway.org In case of emergency/overdose If someone swallows tretinoin, call your local poison control center at 1-800-222-1222. If the victim has collapsed or is not breathing, call local emergency services at 911. What other information should I know? Keep all appointments with your doctor. Do not let anyone else use your medication. Ask your pharmacist any questions you have about refilling your prescription. It is important for you to keep a written list of all of the prescription and nonprescription (over-the-counter) medicines you are taking, as well as any products such as vitamins, minerals, or other dietary supplements. You should bring this list with you each time you visit a doctor or if you are admitted to a hospital. It is also important information to carry with you in case of emergencies. Brand names Altinac ® ¶ Altreno ® Atralin ® Avita ® Refissa ® Renova ® Retin-A ® Tretin X ® ¶

[ Dutasteride pronounced as (doo tas' teer ide)  Dutasteride is used alone or with another medication (tamsulosin [Flomax]) to treat benign prostatic hyperplasia (BPH; enlargement of the prostate gland). Dutasteride is used to treat symptoms of BPH and may reduce the chance of developing acute urinary retention (sudden inability to urinate). Dutasteride may also decrease the chance that prostate surgery will be needed. Dutasteride is in a class of medications called 5-alpha reductase inhibitors. It works by blocking the production of a natural substance that enlarges the prostate. How should this medicine be used? Dutasteride comes as a capsule to take by mouth. It is usually taken once a day with or without food. Take dutasteride at around the same time every day. Follow the directions on your prescription label carefully, and ask your doctor or pharmacist to explain any part you do not understand. Take dutasteride exactly as directed. Do not take more or less of it or take it more often than prescribed by your doctor. Swallow the capsules whole; do not open chew, or crush them. Your symptoms may improve after you have taken dutasteride for 3 months, but it may take 6 months or longer for you to see the full benefit of dutasteride. Talk to your doctor about how you are feeling during your treatment. Dutasteride may control your symptoms but will not cure your condition. Continue to take dutasteride even if you feel well. Do not stop taking dutasteride without talking to your doctor. Ask your pharmacist or doctor for a copy of the manufacturer's information for the patient. Other uses for this medicine This medication may be prescribed for other uses; ask your doctor or pharmacist for more information. What special precautions should I follow? Before taking dutasteride, tell your doctor and pharmacist if you are allergic to dutasteride, finasteride (Propecia, Proscar), any other medications, or any of the ingredients in dutasteride capsules. Ask your doctor or check the manufacturer's patient information for a list of the ingredients. tell your doctor and pharmacist what prescription and nonprescription medications, vitamins, nutritional supplements, and herbal products you are taking or plan to take. Be sure to mention any of the following: antifungals such as ketoconazole (Nizoral); cimetidine (Tagamet); ciprofloxacin (Cipro); diltiazem (Cardizem, Dilacor, Tiazac); ritonavir, (Norvir), troleandomycin (TAO); and verapamil (Calan, Covera, Isoptin, Verelan). Your doctor may need to change the doses of your medications or monitor you carefully for side effects. tell your doctor if you have or have ever had liver disease or prostate cancer. you should know that dutasteride is for use only in men. Women, especially those who are or may become pregnant, should not handle dutasteride capsules. Touching the contents of the capsules may harm the fetus. If a woman who is pregnant or who could become pregnant accidentally touches leaking capsules, she should wash the area with soap and water immediately and call her doctor. you should know that you should not donate blood while you are taking dutasteride and for 6 months after you stop taking this medication. What special dietary instructions should I follow? Talk to your doctor about drinking grapefruit juice while taking this medicine. What should I do if I forget a dose? If you remember the missed dose that same day, take the missed dose as soon as you remember it. However, if you do not remember until the next day, skip the missed dose and continue your regular dosing schedule. Do not take two doses in one day or take a double dose to make up for a missed one. What side effects can this medication cause? Dutasteride may cause side effects. Tell your doctor if any of these symptoms are severe or do not go away: inability to have or maintain an erection decrease in sex drive problems with ejaculation Some side effects may be serious. If you experience any of these symptoms, call your doctor immediately or get emergency medical help: changes in the breasts such as increased size, lumps, pain, or nipple discharge swelling of the face, tongue, or throat difficulty breathing or swallowing peeling skin Taking dutasteride may increase the risk that you will develop high-grade prostate cancer (a type of prostate cancer that spreads and grows more quickly than other types of prostate cancer). Talk to your doctor about the risks of taking dutasteride. Dutasteride may cause other side effects. Call your doctor if you have any unusual problems while taking this medication. If you experience a serious side effect, you or your doctor may send a report to the Food and Drug Administration's (FDA) MedWatch Adverse Event Reporting program online ( http://www.fda.gov/Safety/MedWatch ) or by phone (1-800-332-1088). What should I know about storage and disposal of this medication? Keep this medication in the container it came in, tightly closed, and out of reach of children. Store it at room temperature and away from excess heat and moisture (not in the bathroom). Dutasteride capsules that are stored at high temperatures may become deformed or discolored. Dispose of any capsules that are deformed, discolored, or leaky. Unneeded medications should be disposed of in special ways to ensure that pets, children, and other people cannot consume them. However, you should not flush this medication down the toilet. Instead, the best way to dispose of your medication is through a medicine take-back program. Talk to your pharmacist or contact your local garbage/recycling department to learn about take-back programs in your community. See the FDA's Safe Disposal of Medicines website ( http://goo.gl/c4Rm4p ) for more information if you do not have access to a take-back program. It is important to keep all medication out of sight and reach of children as many containers (such as weekly pill minders and those for eye drops, creams, patches, and inhalers) are not child-resistant and young children can open them easily. To protect young children from poisoning, always lock safety caps and immediately place the medication in a safe location – one that is up and away and out of their sight and reach. http://www.upandaway.org In case of emergency/overdose In case of overdose, call the poison control helpline at 1-800-222-1222. Information is also available online at https://www.poisonhelp.org/help . If the victim has collapsed, had a seizure, has trouble breathing, or can't be awakened, immediately call emergency services at 911. What other information should I know? Keep all appointments with your doctor and the laboratory. Your doctor will order certain lab tests to check your body's response to dutasteride. Before having any laboratory test, tell your doctor and the laboratory personnel that you are taking dutasteride. Do not let anyone else take your medication. Ask your pharmacist any questions you have about refilling your prescription. It is important for you to keep a written list of all of the prescription and nonprescription (over-the-counter) medicines you are taking, as well as any products such as vitamins, minerals, or other dietary supplements. You should bring this list with you each time you visit a doctor or if you are admitted to a hospital. It is also important information to carry with you in case of emergencies. Brand names Avodart ®





















[ Aspirin pronounced as (as' pir in) To use the sharing features on this page, please enable JavaScript. Why is this medication prescribed? How should this medicine be used? Other uses for this medicine What special precautions should I follow? What special dietary instructions should I follow? What should I do if I forget a dose? What side effects can this medication cause? What should I know about storage and disposal of this medication? In case of emergency/overdose What other information should I know? Brand names Other names Why is this medication prescribed? Prescription aspirin is used to relieve the symptoms of rheumatoid arthritis (arthritis caused by swelling of the lining of the joints), osteoarthritis (arthritis caused by breakdown of the lining of the joints), systemic lupus erythematosus (condition in which the immune system attacks the joints and organs and causes pain and swelling) and certain other rheumatologic conditions (conditions in which the immune system attacks parts of the body). Nonprescription aspirin is used to reduce fever and to relieve mild to moderate pain from headaches, menstrual periods, arthritis, toothaches, and muscle aches. Nonprescription aspirin is also used to prevent heart attacks in people who have had a heart attack in the past or who have angina (chest pain that occurs when the heart does not get enough oxygen). Nonprescription aspirin is also used to reduce the risk of death in people who are experiencing or who have recently experienced a heart attack. Nonprescription aspirin is also used to prevent ischemic strokes (strokes that occur when a blood clot blocks the flow of blood to the brain) or mini-strokes (strokes that occur when the flow of blood to the brain is blocked for a short time) in people who have had this type of stroke or mini-stroke in the past. Aspirin will not prevent hemorrhagic strokes (strokes caused by bleeding in the brain). Aspirin is in a group of medications called salicylates. It works by stopping the production of certain natural substances that cause fever, pain, swelling, and blood clots. Aspirin is also available in combination with other medications such as antacids, pain relievers, and cough and cold medications. This monograph only includes information about the use of aspirin alone. If you are taking a combination product, read the information on the package or prescription label or ask your doctor or pharmacist for more information. How should this medicine be used? Prescription aspirin comes as an extended-release (long-acting) tablet. Nonprescription aspirin comes as a regular tablet, a delayed-release (releases the medication in the intestine to prevent damage to the stomach) tablet, a chewable tablet, powder, and a gum to take by mouth. Prescription aspirin is usually taken two or more times a day. Nonprescription aspirin is usually taken once a day to lower the risk of a heart attack or stroke. Nonprescription aspirin is usually taken every 4 to 6 hours as needed to treat fever or pain. Follow the directions on the package or prescription label carefully, and ask your doctor or pharmacist to explain any part you do not understand. Take aspirin exactly as directed. Do not take more or less of it or take it more often than directed by the package label or prescribed by your doctor. Swallow the extended-release tablets whole with a full glass of water. Do not break, crush, or chew them. Swallow the delayed-release tablets with a full glass of water. Chewable aspirin tablets may be chewed, crushed, or swallowed whole. Drink a full glass of water, immediately after taking these tablets. Ask a doctor before you give aspirin to your child or teenager. Aspirin may cause Reye's syndrome (a serious condition in which fat builds up on the brain, liver, and other body organs) in children and teenagers, especially if they have a virus such as chicken pox or the flu. If you have had oral surgery or surgery to remove your tonsils in the last 7 days, talk to your doctor about which types of aspirin are safe for you. Delayed-release tablets begin to work some time after they are taken. Do not take delayed-release tablets for fever or pain that must be relieved quickly. Stop taking aspirin and call your doctor if your fever lasts longer than 3 days, if your pain lasts longer than 10 days, or if the part of your body that was painful becomes red or swollen. You may have a condition that must be treated by a doctor. Other uses for this medicine Aspirin is also sometimes used to treat rheumatic fever (a serious condition that may develop after a strep throat infection and may cause swelling of the heart valves) and Kawasaki disease (an illness that may cause heart problems in children). Aspirin is also sometimes used to lower the risk of blood clots in patients who have artificial heart valves or certain other heart conditions and to prevent certain complications of pregnancy. What special precautions should I follow? Before taking aspirin, tell your doctor and pharmacist if you are allergic to aspirin, other medications for pain or fever, tartrazine dye, or any other medications. tell your doctor and pharmacist what prescription and nonprescription medications, vitamins, nutritional supplements, and herbal products you are taking or plan to take. Be sure to mention any of the following: acetazolamide (Diamox); angiotensin-converting enzyme (ACE) inhibitors such as benazepril (Lotensin), captopril (Capoten), enalapril (Vasotec), fosinopril (Monopril), lisinopril (Prinivil, Zestril), moexipril (Univasc), perindopril, (Aceon), quinapril (Accupril), ramipril (Altace), and trandolapril (Mavik); anticoagulants ('blood thinners') such as warfarin (Coumadin) and heparin; beta blockers such as atenolol (Tenormin), labetalol (Normodyne), metoprolol (Lopressor, Toprol XL), nadolol (Corgard), and propranolol (Inderal); diuretics ('water pills'); medications for diabetes or arthritis; medications for gout such as probenecid and sulfinpyrazone (Anturane); methotrexate (Trexall); other nonsteroidal anti-inflammatory drugs (NSAIDs) such as naproxen (Aleve, Naprosyn); phenytoin (Dilantin); and valproic acid (Depakene, Depakote). Your doctor may need to change the doses of your medications or monitor you more carefully for side effects. if you are taking aspirin on a regular basis to prevent heart attack or stroke, do not take ibuprofen (Advil, Motrin) to treat pain or fever without talking to your doctor. Your doctor will probably tell you to allow some time to pass between taking your daily dose of aspirin and taking a dose of ibuprofen. tell your doctor if you have or have ever had asthma, frequent stuffed or runny nose, or nasal polyps (growths on the linings of the nose). If you have these conditions, there is a risk that you will have an allergic reaction to aspirin. Your doctor may tell you that you should not take aspirin. tell your doctor if you often have heartburn, upset stomach, or stomach pain and if you have or have ever had ulcers, anemia, bleeding problems such as hemophilia, or kidney or liver disease. tell your doctor if you are pregnant, you plan to become pregnant, or if you are breast-feeding. Low dose aspirin 81-mg may be taken during pregnancy, but aspirin doses greater that 81 mg may harm the fetus and cause problems with delivery if it is taken around 20 weeks or later during pregnancy. Do not take aspirin doses greater that 81 mg (e.g., 325 mg) around or after 20 weeks of pregnancy, unless told to do so by your doctor. If you become pregnant while taking aspirin or aspirin containing medications, call your doctor. if you are having surgery, including dental surgery, tell the doctor or dentist that you are taking aspirin. if you drink three or more alcoholic drinks every day, ask your doctor if you should take aspirin or other medications for pain and fever. What special dietary instructions should I follow? Unless your doctor tells you otherwise, continue your normal diet. What should I do if I forget a dose? If your doctor has told you to take aspirin on a regular basis and you miss a dose, take the missed dose as soon as you remember it. However, if it is almost time for the next dose, skip the missed dose and continue your regular dosing schedule. Do not take a double dose to make up for a missed one. What side effects can this medication cause? Aspirin may cause side effects. Tell your doctor if any of these symptoms are severe or do not go away: nausea vomiting stomach pain heartburn Some side effects can be serious. If you experience any of the following symptoms, call your doctor immediately: hives rash swelling of the eyes, face, lips, tongue, or throat wheezing or difficulty breathing hoarseness fast heartbeat fast breathing cold, clammy skin ringing in the ears loss of hearing bloody vomit vomit that looks like coffee grounds bright red blood in stools black or tarry stools Aspirin may cause other side effects. Call your doctor if you experience any unusual problems while you are taking this medication. If you experience a serious side effect, you or your doctor may send a report to the Food and Drug Administration's (FDA) MedWatch Adverse Event Reporting program online ( http://www.fda.gov/Safety/MedWatch ) or by phone (1-800-332-1088). What should I know about storage and disposal of this medication? Keep this medication in the container it came in, tightly closed, and out of reach of children. Store it at room temperature and away from excess heat and moisture (not in the bathroom). Dispose of any tablets that have a strong vinegar smell. It is important to keep all medication out of sight and reach of children as many containers (such as weekly pill minders and those for eye drops, creams, patches, and inhalers) are not child-resistant and young children can open them easily. To protect young children from poisoning, always lock safety caps and immediately place the medication in a safe location – one that is up and away and out of their sight and reach. http://www.upandaway.org Unneeded medications should be disposed of in special ways to ensure that pets, children, and other people cannot consume them. However, you should not flush this medication down the toilet. Instead, the best way to dispose of your medication is through a medicine take-back program. Talk to your pharmacist or contact your local garbage/recycling department to learn about take-back programs in your community. See the FDA's Safe Disposal of Medicines website ( http://goo.gl/c4Rm4p ) for more information if you do not have access to a take-back program. In case of emergency/overdose In case of overdose, call the poison control helpline at 1-800-222-1222. Information is also available online at https://www.poisonhelp.org/help . If the victim has collapsed, had a seizure, has trouble breathing, or can't be awakened, immediately call emergency services at 911. Symptoms of overdose may include: burning pain in the throat or stomach vomiting decreased urination fever restlessness irritability talking a lot and saying things that do not make sense fear or nervousness dizziness double vision uncontrollable shaking of a part of the body confusion abnormally excited mood hallucination (seeing things or hearing voices that are not there) seizures drowsiness loss of consciousness for a period of time What other information should I know? Keep all appointments with your doctor. If you are taking prescription aspirin, do not let anyone else take your medication. Ask your pharmacist any questions you have about refilling your prescription. It is important for you to keep a written list of all of the prescription and nonprescription (over-the-counter) medicines you are taking, as well as any products such as vitamins, minerals, or other dietary supplements. You should bring this list with you each time you visit a doctor or if you are admitted to a hospital. It is also important information to carry with you in case of emergencies. Brand names Acuprin ® Anacin ® Aspirin Regimen Ascriptin ® Aspergum ® Aspidrox ® Aspir-Mox ® Aspirtab ® Aspir-trin ® Bayer ® Aspirin Bufferin ® Buffex ® Easprin ® Ecotrin ® Empirin ® Entaprin ® Entercote ® Fasprin ® Genacote ® Gennin-FC ® Genprin ® Halfprin ® Magnaprin ® Miniprin ® Minitabs ® Ridiprin ® Sloprin ® Uni-Buff ® Uni-Tren ® Valomag ® Zorprin ®















[ Hydrocodone Combination Products pronounced as (hye droe koe' done) To use the sharing features on this page, please enable JavaScript. Why is this medication prescribed? How should this medicine be used? Other uses for this medicine What special precautions should I follow? What special dietary instructions should I follow? What should I do if I forget a dose? What side effects can this medication cause? What should I know about storage and disposal of this medication? In case of emergency/overdose What other information should I know? Other names IMPORTANT WARNING: Hydrocodone combination products may be habit forming. Take your hydrocodone combination product exactly as directed. Do not take more of it, take it more often, or take it in a different way than directed by your doctor. While taking hydrocodone combination products, discuss with your healthcare provider your pain treatment goals, length of treatment, and other ways to manage your pain. Tell your doctor if you or anyone in your family drinks or has ever drunk large amounts of alcohol, uses or has ever used street drugs, or has overused prescription medications, or has had an overdose, or if you have or have ever had depression or another mental illness. There is a greater risk that you will overuse a hydrocodone combination product if you have or have ever had any of these conditions. Talk to your healthcare provider immediately and ask for guidance if you think that you have an opioid addiction or call the U.S. Substance Abuse and Mental Health Services Administration (SAMHSA) National Helpline at 1-800-662-HELP. Hydrocodone may cause serious or life-threatening breathing problems, especially during the first 24 to 72 hours of your treatment and any time your dose is increased. Your doctor will monitor you carefully during your treatment. Tell your doctor if you have or have ever had slowed breathing or asthma. Your doctor will probably tell you not to take a hydrocodone combination product. Also tell your doctor if you have or have ever had lung disease such as chronic obstructive pulmonary disease (COPD; a group of diseases that affect the lungs and airways), a head injury, a brain tumor, or any condition that increases the amount of pressure in your brain. The risk that you will develop breathing problems may be higher if you are an older adult or are weak or malnourished due to disease. If you experience any of the following symptoms, call your doctor immediately or get emergency medical treatment: slowed breathing, long pauses between breaths, or shortness of breath. When a hydrocodone combination product was used in children, serious and life-threatening breathing problems such as slow or difficulty breathing and deaths were reported. Hydrocodone should never be used to treat pain or a cough in children younger than 18 years of age. If your child is currently prescribed a cough and cold medicine containing hydrocodone, talk to your child's doctor about other treatments. Do not allow anyone else to take your medication. Hydrocodone combination products may harm or cause death to other people who take your medication, especially children. Keep hydrocodone combination products in a safe place so that no one else can take it accidentally or on purpose. Be especially careful to keep hydrocodone out of the reach of children. Keep track of how much hydrocodone combination product is left so you will know if any medication is missing.ª Taking certain medications with a hydrocodone combination product may increase the risk of serious or life-threatening breathing problems, sedation, or coma. Tell your doctor and pharmacist what prescription and nonprescription medications, vitamins, nutritional supplements, and herbal products you are taking or plan to take. Your doctor may need to change the dosages of your medications and will monitor you carefully. If you take a hydrocodone combination product with other medications and you develop any of the following symptoms, call your doctor immediately or seek emergency medical care: unusual dizziness, lightheadedness, extreme sleepiness, slowed or difficult breathing, or unresponsiveness. Be sure that your caregiver or family members know which symptoms may be serious so they can call the doctor or emergency medical care if you are unable to seek treatment on your own. Drinking alcohol, taking prescription or nonprescription medications that contain alcohol, or using street drugs during your treatment with a hydrocodone combination product increases the risk that you will experience these serious, life-threatening side effects. Do not drink alcohol, take prescription or nonprescription medications that contain alcohol, or use street drugs during your treatment. Tell your doctor if you are pregnant or plan to become pregnant. If you take a hydrocodone combination product regularly during your pregnancy, your baby may experience life-threatening withdrawal symptoms after birth. Tell your baby's doctor right away if your baby experiences any of the following symptoms: irritability, hyperactivity, abnormal sleep, high-pitched cry, uncontrollable shaking of a part of the body, vomiting, diarrhea, or failure to gain weight. Your doctor or pharmacist will give you the manufacturer's patient information sheet (Medication Guide) when you begin treatment with a hydrocodone combination product and each time you refill your prescription. Read the information carefully and ask your doctor or pharmacist if you have any questions. You can also visit the Food and Drug Administration (FDA) website ( http://www.fda.gov/Drugs/DrugSafety/ucm085729.htm ) or the manufacturer's website to obtain the Medication Guide. Talk to your doctor about the risks of taking a hydrocodone combination product. Why is this medication prescribed? Hydrocodone is available in combination with other ingredients, and different combination products are prescribed for different uses. Some hydrocodone combination products are used to relieve severe pain (pain that begins suddenly, has a specific cause, and is expected to go away when the cause of the pain is healed) in people who are expected to need an opioid pain medication and whose symptoms cannot be controlled by the use of alternative pain medications. Other hydrocodone combination products are used to relieve cough in adults. Hydrocodone is in a class of medications called opiate (narcotic) analgesics and in a class of medications called antitussives. Hydrocodone relieves pain by changing the way the brain and nervous system respond to pain. Hydrocodone relieves cough by decreasing activity in the part of the brain that causes coughing. You will take hydrocodone in combination with at least one other medication, but this monograph only provides information about hydrocodone. Be sure to read information about the other ingredients in the hydrocodone product you are taking. Ask your doctor or pharmacist if you have any questions. How should this medicine be used? Hydrocodone combination products come as a tablet, a syrup, a solution (clear liquid), and an extended-release (long-acting) suspension (liquid) to take by mouth. The tablet, syrup, and solution are usually taken every 4 to 6 hours as needed. The extended-release suspension is usually taken every 12 hours as needed. Follow the directions on your prescription label carefully, and ask your doctor or pharmacist to explain any part you do not understand. Shake the extended-release suspension well before each use to mix the medication evenly. Do not mix the extended-release suspension with other medications or with other liquids such as water. If you will be using hydrocodone combination solution, syrup, or extended-release suspension, do not use a household teaspoon to measure your dose. Household teaspoons are not accurate measuring devices, and you may receive too much medication or not enough medication if you measure your dose with a household teaspoon. Instead, use a properly marked measuring device such as a dropper, medicine spoon, or oral syringe. Ask your doctor or pharmacist if you need help getting or using a measuring device. Your doctor may adjust your dose of hydrocodone during your treatment, depending on how well your pain is controlled and on the side effects that you experience. Talk to your doctor about how you are feeling during your treatment with a hydrocodone combination product. Tell your doctor if you feel that your pain is not controlled or if your pain increases, becomes worse, or if you have new pain or an increased sensitivity to pain during your treatment with a hydrocodone combination product. Do not take more of it or take it more often than prescribed by your doctor. You may receive a dangerous overdose if you take more medication or take your medication more often than prescribed by your doctor. Do not stop taking a hydrocodone combination product without talking to your doctor. If you suddenly stop taking a hydrocodone combination product, you may experience withdrawal symptoms such as restlessness, teary eyes, runny nose, yawning, sweating, chills, muscle pain, widened pupils (black circles in the middle of the eyes), irritability, anxiety, back or joint pain, weakness, stomach cramps, difficulty falling asleep or staying asleep, nausea, loss of appetite, vomiting, diarrhea, fast breathing, or fast heartbeat. Your doctor will probably decrease your dose gradually. Other uses for this medicine This medication may be prescribed for other uses; ask your doctor or pharmacist for more information. What special precautions should I follow? Before taking a hydrocodone combination product, tell your doctor and pharmacist if you are allergic to hydrocodone, the other medication in the hydrocodone combination product you are taking, any other medications, or any of the ingredients in the hydrocodone combination product you are taking. Ask your pharmacist or check the manufacturer's information for the patient for a list of the ingredients. tell your doctor or pharmacist if you are taking the following medications or have stopped taking them within the past two weeks: isocarboxazid (Marplan), linezolid (Zyvox), methylene blue, phenelzine (Nardil), selegiline (Emsam, Zelapar), or tranylcypromine (Parnate). The following nonprescription or herbal products may interact with hydrocodone combination products: St. John's wort and tryptophan. Be sure to let your doctor and pharmacist know that you are taking these medications before you start taking a hydrocodone combination product. Do not start these medications while taking a hydrocodone combination product without discussing it with your healthcare provider. tell your doctor if you have or have ever had any of the conditions mentioned in the IMPORTANT WARNING section, a blockage or narrowing of your stomach or intestines, or paralytic ileus (condition in which digested food does not move through the intestines). Your doctor may tell you not to take a hydrocodone combination product. tell your doctor if you have or have ever had difficulty urinating; adrenal insufficiency (condition in which the adrenal glands do not produce enough of certain hormones needed for important body functions); diabetes; seizures; or thyroid, intestinal, liver, pancreas, gallbladder, or kidney disease. tell your doctor if you are breastfeeding. You should not breastfeed while you are taking a hydrocodone combination product. Hydrocodone combination products can cause shallow breathing, difficulty or noisy breathing, confusion, more than usual sleepiness, trouble breastfeeding, or limpness in breastfed infants. you should know that this medication may decrease fertility in men and women. Talk to your doctor about the risks of taking a hydrocodone combination product. if you are having surgery, including dental surgery, tell the doctor or dentist that you are taking a hydrocodone combination product. you should know that hydrocodone combination products may make you drowsy. Do not drive a car or operate machinery until you know how this medication affects you. you should know that hydrocodone combination products may cause dizziness, lightheadedness, and fainting when you get up too quickly from a lying position. This is more common when you first start taking a hydrocodone combination product. To avoid this problem, get out of bed slowly, resting your feet on the floor for a few minutes before standing up. you should know that hydrocodone combination products may cause constipation. Talk to your doctor about changing your diet and using other medications to treat or prevent constipation. What special dietary instructions should I follow? Unless your doctor tells you otherwise, continue your normal diet. What should I do if I forget a dose? This medication is usually taken as needed. If your doctor has told you to take a hydrocodone combination product regularly, skip the missed dose and continue your regular dosing schedule. Do not take a double dose to make up for a missed one. What side effects can this medication cause? Hydrocodone combination products may cause side effects. Tell your doctor if any of these symptoms are severe or do not go away: stomach pain headache drowsiness lightheadedness fuzzy thinking anxiety abnormally happy or abnormally sad mood dry mouth Some side effects can be serious. If you experience any of these symptoms or those listed in the IMPORTANT WARNING section, call your doctor immediately or get emergency medical treatment: slowed or irregular breathing agitation, hallucinations (seeing things or hearing voices that do not exist), fever, sweating, confusion, fast heartbeat, shivering, severe muscle stiffness or twitching, loss of coordination, or diarrhea nausea, vomiting, loss of appetite, weakness, or dizziness inability to get or keep an erection irregular menstruation decreased sexual desire chest pain fast heartbeat rash; hives; hoarseness; difficulty breathing or swallowing; or swelling of the face, mouth, tongue or throat difficulty urinating Hydrocodone combination products may cause other side effects. Call your doctor if you have any unusual problems while taking this medication. If you experience a serious side effect, you or your doctor may send a report to the Food and Drug Administration's (FDA) MedWatch Adverse Event Reporting program online ( http://www.fda.gov/Safety/MedWatch ) or by phone (1-800-332-1088). What should I know about storage and disposal of this medication? Keep this medication in the container it came in, tightly closed, and out of reach of children, and in a location that is not easily accessible by others, including visitors to the home. Store it at room temperature and away from excess heat and moisture (not in the bathroom). You must immediately dispose of any medication that is outdated or no longer needed through a medicine take-back program. If you do not have a take-back program nearby or one that you can access promptly, flush any hydrocodone combination products that are outdated or no longer needed down the toilet so that others will not take it. Talk to your pharmacist about the proper disposal of your medication. It is important to keep all medication out of sight and reach of children as many containers (such as weekly pill minders and those for eye drops, creams, patches, and inhalers) are not child-resistant and young children can open them easily. To protect young children from poisoning, always lock safety caps and immediately place the medication in a safe location – one that is up and away and out of their sight and reach. http://www.upandaway.org In case of emergency/overdose In case of overdose, call the poison control helpline at 1-800-222-1222. Information is also available online at https://www.poisonhelp.org/help . If the victim has collapsed, had a seizure, has trouble breathing, or can't be awakened, immediately call emergency services at 911. While taking a hydrocodone combination product, you should talk to your doctor about having a rescue medication called naloxone readily available (e.g., home, office). Naloxone is used to reverse the life-threatening effects of an overdose. It works by blocking the effects of opiates to relieve dangerous symptoms caused by high levels of opiates in the blood. Your doctor may also prescribe you naloxone if you are living in a household where there are small children or someone who has abused street or prescription drugs. You should make sure that you and your family members, caregivers, or the people who spend time with you know how to recognize an overdose, how to use naloxone, and what to do until emergency medical help arrives. Your doctor or pharmacist will show you and your family members how to use the medication. Ask your pharmacist for the instructions or visit the manufacturer's website to get the instructions. If symptoms of an overdose occur, a friend or family member should give the first dose of naloxone, call 911 immediately, and stay with you and watch you closely until emergency medical help arrives. Your symptoms may return within a few minutes after you receive naloxone. If your symptoms return, the person should give you another dose of naloxone. Additional doses may be given every 2 to 3 minutes, if symptoms return before medical help arrives. Symptoms of overdose may include the following: narrowed or widened pupils (dark circles in the middle of the eyes) slow, shallow, or stopped breathing difficulty breathing slowed or stopped heartbeat cold, clammy, or blue skin excessive sleepiness unable to respond or wake up unusual snoring What other information should I know? Keep all appointments with your doctor and laboratory. Your doctor will order certain lab tests to check your body's response to a hydrocodone combination product. Before having any laboratory test (especially those that involve methylene blue), tell your doctor and the laboratory personnel that you are taking a hydrocodone combination product. This prescription is not refillable. If you continue to have pain or a cough after you finish taking your medication, call your doctor. It is important for you to keep a written list of all of the prescription and nonprescription (over-the-counter) medicines you are taking, as well as any products such as vitamins, minerals, or other dietary supplements. You should bring this list with you each time you visit a doctor or if you are admitted to a hospital. It is also important information to carry with you in case of emergencies.

[ Aspirin pronounced as (as' pir in) To use the sharing features on this page, please enable JavaScript. Why is this medication prescribed? How should this medicine be used? Other uses for this medicine What special precautions should I follow? What special dietary instructions should I follow? What should I do if I forget a dose? What side effects can this medication cause? What should I know about storage and disposal of this medication? In case of emergency/overdose What other information should I know? Brand names Other names Why is this medication prescribed? Prescription aspirin is used to relieve the symptoms of rheumatoid arthritis (arthritis caused by swelling of the lining of the joints), osteoarthritis (arthritis caused by breakdown of the lining of the joints), systemic lupus erythematosus (condition in which the immune system attacks the joints and organs and causes pain and swelling) and certain other rheumatologic conditions (conditions in which the immune system attacks parts of the body). Nonprescription aspirin is used to reduce fever and to relieve mild to moderate pain from headaches, menstrual periods, arthritis, toothaches, and muscle aches. Nonprescription aspirin is also used to prevent heart attacks in people who have had a heart attack in the past or who have angina (chest pain that occurs when the heart does not get enough oxygen). Nonprescription aspirin is also used to reduce the risk of death in people who are experiencing or who have recently experienced a heart attack. Nonprescription aspirin is also used to prevent ischemic strokes (strokes that occur when a blood clot blocks the flow of blood to the brain) or mini-strokes (strokes that occur when the flow of blood to the brain is blocked for a short time) in people who have had this type of stroke or mini-stroke in the past. Aspirin will not prevent hemorrhagic strokes (strokes caused by bleeding in the brain). Aspirin is in a group of medications called salicylates. It works by stopping the production of certain natural substances that cause fever, pain, swelling, and blood clots. Aspirin is also available in combination with other medications such as antacids, pain relievers, and cough and cold medications. This monograph only includes information about the use of aspirin alone. If you are taking a combination product, read the information on the package or prescription label or ask your doctor or pharmacist for more information. How should this medicine be used? Prescription aspirin comes as an extended-release (long-acting) tablet. Nonprescription aspirin comes as a regular tablet, a delayed-release (releases the medication in the intestine to prevent damage to the stomach) tablet, a chewable tablet, powder, and a gum to take by mouth. Prescription aspirin is usually taken two or more times a day. Nonprescription aspirin is usually taken once a day to lower the risk of a heart attack or stroke. Nonprescription aspirin is usually taken every 4 to 6 hours as needed to treat fever or pain. Follow the directions on the package or prescription label carefully, and ask your doctor or pharmacist to explain any part you do not understand. Take aspirin exactly as directed. Do not take more or less of it or take it more often than directed by the package label or prescribed by your doctor. Swallow the extended-release tablets whole with a full glass of water. Do not break, crush, or chew them. Swallow the delayed-release tablets with a full glass of water. Chewable aspirin tablets may be chewed, crushed, or swallowed whole. Drink a full glass of water, immediately after taking these tablets. Ask a doctor before you give aspirin to your child or teenager. Aspirin may cause Reye's syndrome (a serious condition in which fat builds up on the brain, liver, and other body organs) in children and teenagers, especially if they have a virus such as chicken pox or the flu. If you have had oral surgery or surgery to remove your tonsils in the last 7 days, talk to your doctor about which types of aspirin are safe for you. Delayed-release tablets begin to work some time after they are taken. Do not take delayed-release tablets for fever or pain that must be relieved quickly. Stop taking aspirin and call your doctor if your fever lasts longer than 3 days, if your pain lasts longer than 10 days, or if the part of your body that was painful becomes red or swollen. You may have a condition that must be treated by a doctor. Other uses for this medicine Aspirin is also sometimes used to treat rheumatic fever (a serious condition that may develop after a strep throat infection and may cause swelling of the heart valves) and Kawasaki disease (an illness that may cause heart problems in children). Aspirin is also sometimes used to lower the risk of blood clots in patients who have artificial heart valves or certain other heart conditions and to prevent certain complications of pregnancy. What special precautions should I follow? Before taking aspirin, tell your doctor and pharmacist if you are allergic to aspirin, other medications for pain or fever, tartrazine dye, or any other medications. tell your doctor and pharmacist what prescription and nonprescription medications, vitamins, nutritional supplements, and herbal products you are taking or plan to take. Be sure to mention any of the following: acetazolamide (Diamox); angiotensin-converting enzyme (ACE) inhibitors such as benazepril (Lotensin), captopril (Capoten), enalapril (Vasotec), fosinopril (Monopril), lisinopril (Prinivil, Zestril), moexipril (Univasc), perindopril, (Aceon), quinapril (Accupril), ramipril (Altace), and trandolapril (Mavik); anticoagulants ('blood thinners') such as warfarin (Coumadin) and heparin; beta blockers such as atenolol (Tenormin), labetalol (Normodyne), metoprolol (Lopressor, Toprol XL), nadolol (Corgard), and propranolol (Inderal); diuretics ('water pills'); medications for diabetes or arthritis; medications for gout such as probenecid and sulfinpyrazone (Anturane); methotrexate (Trexall); other nonsteroidal anti-inflammatory drugs (NSAIDs) such as naproxen (Aleve, Naprosyn); phenytoin (Dilantin); and valproic acid (Depakene, Depakote). Your doctor may need to change the doses of your medications or monitor you more carefully for side effects. if you are taking aspirin on a regular basis to prevent heart attack or stroke, do not take ibuprofen (Advil, Motrin) to treat pain or fever without talking to your doctor. Your doctor will probably tell you to allow some time to pass between taking your daily dose of aspirin and taking a dose of ibuprofen. tell your doctor if you have or have ever had asthma, frequent stuffed or runny nose, or nasal polyps (growths on the linings of the nose). If you have these conditions, there is a risk that you will have an allergic reaction to aspirin. Your doctor may tell you that you should not take aspirin. tell your doctor if you often have heartburn, upset stomach, or stomach pain and if you have or have ever had ulcers, anemia, bleeding problems such as hemophilia, or kidney or liver disease. tell your doctor if you are pregnant, you plan to become pregnant, or if you are breast-feeding. Low dose aspirin 81-mg may be taken during pregnancy, but aspirin doses greater that 81 mg may harm the fetus and cause problems with delivery if it is taken around 20 weeks or later during pregnancy. Do not take aspirin doses greater that 81 mg (e.g., 325 mg) around or after 20 weeks of pregnancy, unless told to do so by your doctor. If you become pregnant while taking aspirin or aspirin containing medications, call your doctor. if you are having surgery, including dental surgery, tell the doctor or dentist that you are taking aspirin. if you drink three or more alcoholic drinks every day, ask your doctor if you should take aspirin or other medications for pain and fever. What special dietary instructions should I follow? Unless your doctor tells you otherwise, continue your normal diet. What should I do if I forget a dose? If your doctor has told you to take aspirin on a regular basis and you miss a dose, take the missed dose as soon as you remember it. However, if it is almost time for the next dose, skip the missed dose and continue your regular dosing schedule. Do not take a double dose to make up for a missed one. What side effects can this medication cause? Aspirin may cause side effects. Tell your doctor if any of these symptoms are severe or do not go away: nausea vomiting stomach pain heartburn Some side effects can be serious. If you experience any of the following symptoms, call your doctor immediately: hives rash swelling of the eyes, face, lips, tongue, or throat wheezing or difficulty breathing hoarseness fast heartbeat fast breathing cold, clammy skin ringing in the ears loss of hearing bloody vomit vomit that looks like coffee grounds bright red blood in stools black or tarry stools Aspirin may cause other side effects. Call your doctor if you experience any unusual problems while you are taking this medication. If you experience a serious side effect, you or your doctor may send a report to the Food and Drug Administration's (FDA) MedWatch Adverse Event Reporting program online ( http://www.fda.gov/Safety/MedWatch ) or by phone (1-800-332-1088). What should I know about storage and disposal of this medication? Keep this medication in the container it came in, tightly closed, and out of reach of children. Store it at room temperature and away from excess heat and moisture (not in the bathroom). Dispose of any tablets that have a strong vinegar smell. It is important to keep all medication out of sight and reach of children as many containers (such as weekly pill minders and those for eye drops, creams, patches, and inhalers) are not child-resistant and young children can open them easily. To protect young children from poisoning, always lock safety caps and immediately place the medication in a safe location – one that is up and away and out of their sight and reach. http://www.upandaway.org Unneeded medications should be disposed of in special ways to ensure that pets, children, and other people cannot consume them. However, you should not flush this medication down the toilet. Instead, the best way to dispose of your medication is through a medicine take-back program. Talk to your pharmacist or contact your local garbage/recycling department to learn about take-back programs in your community. See the FDA's Safe Disposal of Medicines website ( http://goo.gl/c4Rm4p ) for more information if you do not have access to a take-back program. In case of emergency/overdose In case of overdose, call the poison control helpline at 1-800-222-1222. Information is also available online at https://www.poisonhelp.org/help . If the victim has collapsed, had a seizure, has trouble breathing, or can't be awakened, immediately call emergency services at 911. Symptoms of overdose may include: burning pain in the throat or stomach vomiting decreased urination fever restlessness irritability talking a lot and saying things that do not make sense fear or nervousness dizziness double vision uncontrollable shaking of a part of the body confusion abnormally excited mood hallucination (seeing things or hearing voices that are not there) seizures drowsiness loss of consciousness for a period of time What other information should I know? Keep all appointments with your doctor. If you are taking prescription aspirin, do not let anyone else take your medication. Ask your pharmacist any questions you have about refilling your prescription. It is important for you to keep a written list of all of the prescription and nonprescription (over-the-counter) medicines you are taking, as well as any products such as vitamins, minerals, or other dietary supplements. You should bring this list with you each time you visit a doctor or if you are admitted to a hospital. It is also important information to carry with you in case of emergencies. Brand names Acuprin ® Anacin ® Aspirin Regimen Ascriptin ® Aspergum ® Aspidrox ® Aspir-Mox ® Aspirtab ® Aspir-trin ® Bayer ® Aspirin Bufferin ® Buffex ® Easprin ® Ecotrin ® Empirin ® Entaprin ® Entercote ® Fasprin ® Genacote ® Gennin-FC ® Genprin ® Halfprin ® Magnaprin ® Miniprin ® Minitabs ® Ridiprin ® Sloprin ® Uni-Buff ® Uni-Tren ® Valomag ® Zorprin ®











[ Azilsartan pronounced as (ay'' zil sar' tan) To use the sharing features on this page, please enable JavaScript. Why is this medication prescribed? How should this medicine be used? Other uses for this medicine What special precautions should I follow? What special dietary instructions should I follow? What should I do if I forget a dose? What side effects can this medication cause? What should I know about storage and disposal of this medication? In case of emergency/overdose What other information should I know? Brand names IMPORTANT WARNING: Tell your doctor if you are pregnant or plan to become pregnant. Do not take azilsartan if you are pregnant. If you become pregnant while you are taking azilsartan, stop taking azilsartan and call your doctor immediately. Azilsartan may cause death or serious injury to the fetus when taken in the last 6 months of pregnancy. Why is this medication prescribed? Azilsartan is used alone or in combination with other medications to treat high blood pressure. Azilsartan is in a class of medications called angiotensin II receptor antagonists. It works by blocking the action of certain natural substances that tighten the blood vessels, allowing the blood to flow more smoothly and the heart to pump more efficiently. High blood pressure is a common condition, and when not treated it can cause damage to the brain, heart, blood vessels, kidneys, and other parts of the body. Damage to these organs may cause heart disease, a heart attack, heart failure, stroke, kidney failure, loss of vision, and other problems. In addition to taking medication, making lifestyle changes will also help to control your blood pressure. These changes include eating a diet that is low in fat and salt, maintaining a healthy weight, exercising at least 30 minutes most days, not smoking, and using alcohol in moderation. How should this medicine be used? Azilsartan comes as a tablet to take by mouth. It is usually taken once a day with or without food. To help you remember to take azilsartan, take it around the same time every day. Follow the directions on your prescription label carefully, and ask your doctor or pharmacist to explain any part you do not understand. Take azilsartan exactly as directed. Do not take more or less of it or take it more often than prescribed by your doctor. Azilsartan controls high blood pressure but does not cure it. It may take about 2 weeks for you to notice the full benefit of azilsartan. Continue to take azilsartan even if you feel well. Do not stop taking azilsartan without talking to your doctor. Ask your pharmacist or doctor for a copy of the manufacturer's information for the patient. Other uses for this medicine This medication may be prescribed for other uses; ask your doctor or pharmacist for more information. What special precautions should I follow? Before taking azilsartan, tell your doctor and pharmacist if you are allergic to azilsartan, any other medications, or any of the ingredients in azilsartan tablets. Ask your pharmacist for a list of the ingredients. Some medications should not be taken with azilsartan. Other medications may cause dosing changes or extra monitoring when taken with azilsartan. Make sure you have discussed any medications you are currently taking or plan to take before starting azilsartan with your doctor and pharmacist. Before starting, stopping, or changing any medications while taking azilsartan, please get the advice of your doctor or pharmacist. The following nonprescription products may interact with azilsartan: aspirin, other nonsteroidal anti-inflammatory medications (NSAIDs) such as ibuprofen (Advil, Motrin) and naproxen (Aleve, Naprosyn), and potassium supplements. Be sure to let your doctor and pharmacist know that you are taking these medications before you start taking azilsartan. Do not start any of these medications while taking azilsartan without discussing with your healthcare provider. tell your doctor if you have or have ever had heart failure, or kidney or liver disease. tell your doctor if you are breastfeeding. you should know that azilsartan may cause dizziness, lightheadedness, and fainting when you get up too quickly from a lying position. This is more common when you first start taking azilsartan. To help avoid this problem, get out of bed slowly, resting your feet on the floor for a few minutes before standing up. you should know that diarrhea, vomiting, not drinking enough fluids, and sweating a lot can cause a drop in blood pressure, which may cause lightheadedness and fainting. Tell your doctor if you have any of these problems or develop them during your treatment. What special dietary instructions should I follow? Do not use salt substitutes containing potassium without talking to your doctor. If your doctor prescribes a low-salt or low-sodium diet, follow these directions carefully. What should I do if I forget a dose? Take the missed dose as soon as you remember it. However, if it is almost time for the next dose, skip the missed dose and continue your regular dosing schedule. Do not take a double dose to make up for a missed one. What side effects can this medication cause? Azilsartan may cause side effects. Tell your doctor if any of these symptoms are severe or do not go away: diarrhea Some side effects can be serious. If you experience any of these symptoms below, call your doctor immediately. dizziness fainting Azilsartan may cause other side effects. Call your doctor if you have any unusual problems while taking this medication. If you experience a serious side effect, you or your doctor may send a report to the Food and Drug Administration's (FDA) MedWatch Adverse Event Reporting program online ( http://www.fda.gov/Safety/MedWatch ) or by phone (1-800-332-1088). What should I know about storage and disposal of this medication? Keep this medication in the container it came in, tightly closed, and out of reach of children. Store it at room temperature and away from light, excess heat and moisture (not in the bathroom). It is important to keep all medication out of sight and reach of children as many containers (such as weekly pill minders and those for eye drops, creams, patches, and inhalers) are not child-resistant and young children can open them easily. To protect young children from poisoning, always lock safety caps and immediately place the medication in a safe location – one that is up and away and out of their sight and reach. http://www.upandaway.org Unneeded medications should be disposed of in special ways to ensure that pets, children, and other people cannot consume them. However, you should not flush this medication down the toilet. Instead, the best way to dispose of your medication is through a medicine take-back program. Talk to your pharmacist or contact your local garbage/recycling department to learn about take-back programs in your community. See the FDA's Safe Disposal of Medicines website ( http://goo.gl/c4Rm4p ) for more information if you do not have access to a take-back program. In case of emergency/overdose In case of overdose, call the poison control helpline at 1-800-222-1222. Information is also available online at https://www.poisonhelp.org/help . If the victim has collapsed, had a seizure, has trouble breathing, or can't be awakened, immediately call emergency services at 911. What other information should I know? Keep all appointments with your doctor and the laboratory. Your blood pressure should be checked regularly to determine your response to azilsartan. Do not let anyone else take your medication. Ask your pharmacist any questions you have about refilling your prescription. Azilsartan tablets have a noticeable odor. Ask your pharmacist if you have any questions regarding your medication. It is important for you to keep a written list of all of the prescription and nonprescription (over-the-counter) medicines you are taking, as well as any products such as vitamins, minerals, or other dietary supplements. You should bring this list with you each time you visit a doctor or if you are admitted to a hospital. It is also important information to carry with you in case of emergencies. Brand names Edarbi ®



[ Phenazopyridine pronounced as (fen az oh peer' i deen) To use the sharing features on this page, please enable JavaScript. Why is this medication prescribed? How should this medicine be used? Other uses for this medicine What special precautions should I follow? What should I do if I forget a dose? What side effects can this medication cause? What should I know about storage and disposal of this medication? In case of emergency/overdose What other information should I know? Brand names Why is this medication prescribed? Phenazopyridine relieves urinary tract pain, burning, irritation, and discomfort, as well as urgent and frequent urination caused by urinary tract infections, surgery, injury, or examination procedures. However, phenazopyridine is not an antibiotic; it does not cure infections. How should this medicine be used? Phenazopyridine comes as a tablet or capsule to take by mouth. It usually is taken three times a day after meals. Do not chew or crush the tablets as it may cause your teeth to become stained; swallow them whole with a full glass of water. You may stop taking this drug when pain and discomfort completely disappear. Follow the directions on your prescription label carefully, and ask your doctor or pharmacist to explain any part you do not understand. Take phenazopyridine exactly as directed. Do not take more or less of it or take it more often than prescribed by your doctor. Other uses for this medicine This medication is sometimes prescribed for other uses; ask your doctor or pharmacist for more information. What special precautions should I follow? Before taking phenazopyridine, tell your doctor and pharmacist if you are allergic to phenazopyridine or any other drugs. tell your doctor and pharmacist what prescription and nonprescription medications you are taking, including vitamins. tell your doctor if you have or have ever had kidney disease or glucose-6-phosphate dehydrogenase (G-6-PD) deficiency (an inherited blood disease). tell your doctor if you are pregnant, plan to become pregnant, or are breast-feeding. If you become pregnant while taking phenazopyridine, call your doctor. What should I do if I forget a dose? Take the missed dose as soon as you remember it. However, if it is almost time for the next dose, skip the missed dose and continue your regular dosing schedule. Do not take a double dose to make up for a missed one. What side effects can this medication cause? Phenazopyridine may cause side effects. Your urine may turn a red-orange or brown; this effect is harmless. Tell your doctor if any of these symptoms are severe or do not go away: headache dizziness upset stomach If you experience any of the following symptoms, call your doctor immediately: yellowing of the skin or eyes fever confusion skin discoloration (blue to bluish-purple) shortness of breath skin rash sudden decrease in the amount of urine swelling of the face, fingers, feet, or legs If you experience a serious side effect, you or your doctor may send a report to the Food and Drug Administration's (FDA) MedWatch Adverse Event Reporting program online ( http://www.fda.gov/Safety/MedWatch ) or by phone (1-800-332-1088). What should I know about storage and disposal of this medication? Keep this medication in the container it came in, tightly closed, and out of reach of children. Store it at room temperature and away from excess heat and moisture (not in the bathroom). Unneeded medications should be disposed of in special ways to ensure that pets, children, and other people cannot consume them. However, you should not flush this medication down the toilet. Instead, the best way to dispose of your medication is through a medicine take-back program. Talk to your pharmacist or contact your local garbage/recycling department to learn about take-back programs in your community. See the FDA's Safe Disposal of Medicines website ( http://goo.gl/c4Rm4p ) for more information if you do not have access to a take-back program. It is important to keep all medication out of sight and reach of children as many containers (such as weekly pill minders and those for eye drops, creams, patches, and inhalers) are not child-resistant and young children can open them easily. To protect young children from poisoning, always lock safety caps and immediately place the medication in a safe location – one that is up and away and out of their sight and reach. http://www.upandaway.org In case of emergency/overdose In case of overdose, call the poison control helpline at 1-800-222-1222. Information is also available online at https://www.poisonhelp.org/help . If the victim has collapsed, had a seizure, has trouble breathing, or can't be awakened, immediately call emergency services at 911. What other information should I know? Keep all appointments with your doctor and the laboratory. Your doctor will order certain lab tests to check your response to phenazopyridine. Phenazopyridine can interfere with laboratory tests, including urine tests for glucose (sugar) and ketones. If you have diabetes, you should use Clinitest rather than Tes-Tape or Clinistix to test your urine for sugar. Urine tests for ketones (Acetest and Ketostix) may give false results. Before you have any tests, tell the laboratory personnel and doctor that you take this medication. Phenazopyridine stains clothing and contact lenses. Avoid wearing contact lenses while taking this medicine. Do not let anyone else take your medication. Your prescription is probably not refillable. If you still have symptoms after you finish the phenazopyridine, call your doctor. It is important for you to keep a written list of all of the prescription and nonprescription (over-the-counter) medicines you are taking, as well as any products such as vitamins, minerals, or other dietary supplements. You should bring this list with you each time you visit a doctor or if you are admitted to a hospital. It is also important information to carry with you in case of emergencies. Brand names Azo-Standard ® Baridium ® Nefrecil ® Phenazodine ® Prodium ® Pyridate ® Pyridium ® Sedural ® Uricalm ® Uristat ® Uropyrine ® Urodine ® Urogesic ®

[ Phenazopyridine pronounced as (fen az oh peer' i deen) To use the sharing features on this page, please enable JavaScript. Why is this medication prescribed? How should this medicine be used? Other uses for this medicine What special precautions should I follow? What should I do if I forget a dose? What side effects can this medication cause? What should I know about storage and disposal of this medication? In case of emergency/overdose What other information should I know? Brand names Why is this medication prescribed? Phenazopyridine relieves urinary tract pain, burning, irritation, and discomfort, as well as urgent and frequent urination caused by urinary tract infections, surgery, injury, or examination procedures. However, phenazopyridine is not an antibiotic; it does not cure infections. How should this medicine be used? Phenazopyridine comes as a tablet or capsule to take by mouth. It usually is taken three times a day after meals. Do not chew or crush the tablets as it may cause your teeth to become stained; swallow them whole with a full glass of water. You may stop taking this drug when pain and discomfort completely disappear. Follow the directions on your prescription label carefully, and ask your doctor or pharmacist to explain any part you do not understand. Take phenazopyridine exactly as directed. Do not take more or less of it or take it more often than prescribed by your doctor. Other uses for this medicine This medication is sometimes prescribed for other uses; ask your doctor or pharmacist for more information. What special precautions should I follow? Before taking phenazopyridine, tell your doctor and pharmacist if you are allergic to phenazopyridine or any other drugs. tell your doctor and pharmacist what prescription and nonprescription medications you are taking, including vitamins. tell your doctor if you have or have ever had kidney disease or glucose-6-phosphate dehydrogenase (G-6-PD) deficiency (an inherited blood disease). tell your doctor if you are pregnant, plan to become pregnant, or are breast-feeding. If you become pregnant while taking phenazopyridine, call your doctor. What should I do if I forget a dose? Take the missed dose as soon as you remember it. However, if it is almost time for the next dose, skip the missed dose and continue your regular dosing schedule. Do not take a double dose to make up for a missed one. What side effects can this medication cause? Phenazopyridine may cause side effects. Your urine may turn a red-orange or brown; this effect is harmless. Tell your doctor if any of these symptoms are severe or do not go away: headache dizziness upset stomach If you experience any of the following symptoms, call your doctor immediately: yellowing of the skin or eyes fever confusion skin discoloration (blue to bluish-purple) shortness of breath skin rash sudden decrease in the amount of urine swelling of the face, fingers, feet, or legs If you experience a serious side effect, you or your doctor may send a report to the Food and Drug Administration's (FDA) MedWatch Adverse Event Reporting program online ( http://www.fda.gov/Safety/MedWatch ) or by phone (1-800-332-1088). What should I know about storage and disposal of this medication? Keep this medication in the container it came in, tightly closed, and out of reach of children. Store it at room temperature and away from excess heat and moisture (not in the bathroom). Unneeded medications should be disposed of in special ways to ensure that pets, children, and other people cannot consume them. However, you should not flush this medication down the toilet. Instead, the best way to dispose of your medication is through a medicine take-back program. Talk to your pharmacist or contact your local garbage/recycling department to learn about take-back programs in your community. See the FDA's Safe Disposal of Medicines website ( http://goo.gl/c4Rm4p ) for more information if you do not have access to a take-back program. It is important to keep all medication out of sight and reach of children as many containers (such as weekly pill minders and those for eye drops, creams, patches, and inhalers) are not child-resistant and young children can open them easily. To protect young children from poisoning, always lock safety caps and immediately place the medication in a safe location – one that is up and away and out of their sight and reach. http://www.upandaway.org In case of emergency/overdose In case of overdose, call the poison control helpline at 1-800-222-1222. Information is also available online at https://www.poisonhelp.org/help . If the victim has collapsed, had a seizure, has trouble breathing, or can't be awakened, immediately call emergency services at 911. What other information should I know? Keep all appointments with your doctor and the laboratory. Your doctor will order certain lab tests to check your response to phenazopyridine. Phenazopyridine can interfere with laboratory tests, including urine tests for glucose (sugar) and ketones. If you have diabetes, you should use Clinitest rather than Tes-Tape or Clinistix to test your urine for sugar. Urine tests for ketones (Acetest and Ketostix) may give false results. Before you have any tests, tell the laboratory personnel and doctor that you take this medication. Phenazopyridine stains clothing and contact lenses. Avoid wearing contact lenses while taking this medicine. Do not let anyone else take your medication. Your prescription is probably not refillable. If you still have symptoms after you finish the phenazopyridine, call your doctor. It is important for you to keep a written list of all of the prescription and nonprescription (over-the-counter) medicines you are taking, as well as any products such as vitamins, minerals, or other dietary supplements. You should bring this list with you each time you visit a doctor or if you are admitted to a hospital. It is also important information to carry with you in case of emergencies. Brand names Azo-Standard ® Baridium ® Nefrecil ® Phenazodine ® Prodium ® Pyridate ® Pyridium ® Sedural ® Uricalm ® Uristat ® Uropyrine ® Urodine ® Urogesic ®

[ Phenazopyridine pronounced as (fen az oh peer' i deen) To use the sharing features on this page, please enable JavaScript. Why is this medication prescribed? How should this medicine be used? Other uses for this medicine What special precautions should I follow? What should I do if I forget a dose? What side effects can this medication cause? What should I know about storage and disposal of this medication? In case of emergency/overdose What other information should I know? Brand names Why is this medication prescribed? Phenazopyridine relieves urinary tract pain, burning, irritation, and discomfort, as well as urgent and frequent urination caused by urinary tract infections, surgery, injury, or examination procedures. However, phenazopyridine is not an antibiotic; it does not cure infections. How should this medicine be used? Phenazopyridine comes as a tablet or capsule to take by mouth. It usually is taken three times a day after meals. Do not chew or crush the tablets as it may cause your teeth to become stained; swallow them whole with a full glass of water. You may stop taking this drug when pain and discomfort completely disappear. Follow the directions on your prescription label carefully, and ask your doctor or pharmacist to explain any part you do not understand. Take phenazopyridine exactly as directed. Do not take more or less of it or take it more often than prescribed by your doctor. Other uses for this medicine This medication is sometimes prescribed for other uses; ask your doctor or pharmacist for more information. What special precautions should I follow? Before taking phenazopyridine, tell your doctor and pharmacist if you are allergic to phenazopyridine or any other drugs. tell your doctor and pharmacist what prescription and nonprescription medications you are taking, including vitamins. tell your doctor if you have or have ever had kidney disease or glucose-6-phosphate dehydrogenase (G-6-PD) deficiency (an inherited blood disease). tell your doctor if you are pregnant, plan to become pregnant, or are breast-feeding. If you become pregnant while taking phenazopyridine, call your doctor. What should I do if I forget a dose? Take the missed dose as soon as you remember it. However, if it is almost time for the next dose, skip the missed dose and continue your regular dosing schedule. Do not take a double dose to make up for a missed one. What side effects can this medication cause? Phenazopyridine may cause side effects. Your urine may turn a red-orange or brown; this effect is harmless. Tell your doctor if any of these symptoms are severe or do not go away: headache dizziness upset stomach If you experience any of the following symptoms, call your doctor immediately: yellowing of the skin or eyes fever confusion skin discoloration (blue to bluish-purple) shortness of breath skin rash sudden decrease in the amount of urine swelling of the face, fingers, feet, or legs If you experience a serious side effect, you or your doctor may send a report to the Food and Drug Administration's (FDA) MedWatch Adverse Event Reporting program online ( http://www.fda.gov/Safety/MedWatch ) or by phone (1-800-332-1088). What should I know about storage and disposal of this medication? Keep this medication in the container it came in, tightly closed, and out of reach of children. Store it at room temperature and away from excess heat and moisture (not in the bathroom). Unneeded medications should be disposed of in special ways to ensure that pets, children, and other people cannot consume them. However, you should not flush this medication down the toilet. Instead, the best way to dispose of your medication is through a medicine take-back program. Talk to your pharmacist or contact your local garbage/recycling department to learn about take-back programs in your community. See the FDA's Safe Disposal of Medicines website ( http://goo.gl/c4Rm4p ) for more information if you do not have access to a take-back program. It is important to keep all medication out of sight and reach of children as many containers (such as weekly pill minders and those for eye drops, creams, patches, and inhalers) are not child-resistant and young children can open them easily. To protect young children from poisoning, always lock safety caps and immediately place the medication in a safe location – one that is up and away and out of their sight and reach. http://www.upandaway.org In case of emergency/overdose In case of overdose, call the poison control helpline at 1-800-222-1222. Information is also available online at https://www.poisonhelp.org/help . If the victim has collapsed, had a seizure, has trouble breathing, or can't be awakened, immediately call emergency services at 911. What other information should I know? Keep all appointments with your doctor and the laboratory. Your doctor will order certain lab tests to check your response to phenazopyridine. Phenazopyridine can interfere with laboratory tests, including urine tests for glucose (sugar) and ketones. If you have diabetes, you should use Clinitest rather than Tes-Tape or Clinistix to test your urine for sugar. Urine tests for ketones (Acetest and Ketostix) may give false results. Before you have any tests, tell the laboratory personnel and doctor that you take this medication. Phenazopyridine stains clothing and contact lenses. Avoid wearing contact lenses while taking this medicine. Do not let anyone else take your medication. Your prescription is probably not refillable. If you still have symptoms after you finish the phenazopyridine, call your doctor. It is important for you to keep a written list of all of the prescription and nonprescription (over-the-counter) medicines you are taking, as well as any products such as vitamins, minerals, or other dietary supplements. You should bring this list with you each time you visit a doctor or if you are admitted to a hospital. It is also important information to carry with you in case of emergencies. Brand names Azo-Standard ® Baridium ® Nefrecil ® Phenazodine ® Prodium ® Pyridate ® Pyridium ® Sedural ® Uricalm ® Uristat ® Uropyrine ® Urodine ® Urogesic ®



[ Olmesartan pronounced as (all mi sar' tan) To use the sharing features on this page, please enable JavaScript. Why is this medication prescribed? How should this medicine be used? Other uses for this medicine What special precautions should I follow? What special dietary instructions should I follow? What should I do if I forget a dose? What side effects can this medication cause? What should I know about storage and disposal of this medication? In case of emergency/overdose What other information should I know? Brand names IMPORTANT WARNING: Tell your doctor if you are pregnant or plan to become pregnant. Do not take olmesartan if you are pregnant. If you become pregnant while you are taking olmesartan, stop taking olmesartan and call your doctor immediately. Olmesartan may cause death or serious injury to the fetus when taken in the last 6 months of pregnancy. Why is this medication prescribed? Olmesartan is used alone or in combination with other medications to treat high blood pressure in adults and children 6 years of age and older. Olmesartan is in a class of medications called angiotensin II receptor antagonists. It works by blocking the action of certain natural substances that tighten the blood vessels, allowing the blood to flow more smoothly and the heart to pump more efficiently. High blood pressure is a common condition and when not treated, can cause damage to the brain, heart, blood vessels, kidneys and other parts of the body. Damage to these organs may cause heart disease, a heart attack, heart failure, stroke, kidney failure, loss of vision, and other problems. In addition to taking medication, making lifestyle changes will also help to control your blood pressure. These changes include eating a diet that is low in fat and salt, maintaining a healthy weight, exercising at least 30 minutes most days, not smoking, and using alcohol in moderation. How should this medicine be used? Olmesartan comes as a tablet to take by mouth. It is usually taken once a day with or without food. To help you remember to take olmesartan, take it at around the same time every day. Follow the directions on your prescription label carefully, and ask your doctor or pharmacist to explain any part you do not understand. Take olmesartan exactly as directed. Do not take more or less of it or take it more often than prescribed by your doctor. If your child can not swallow a tablet, talk to your doctor or pharmacist. The pharmacist can prepare a liquid form of this medication for your child. Your doctor will probably start you on a low dose of olmesartan and may increase your dose after 2 weeks. Olmesartan controls high blood pressure but does not cure it. Your blood pressure may decrease during the first week of your treatment, but it may take up to 2 weeks before you notice the full benefit of olmesartan. Continue to take olmesartan even if you feel well. Do not stop taking olmesartan without talking to your doctor. Other uses for this medicine Olmesartan is also sometimes used to treat heart failure (condition in which the heart is unable to pump enough blood to the rest of the body) and diabetic nephropathy (kidney disease in people with diabetes and high blood pressure). Talk to your doctor about the possible risks of using this medication for your condition. This medication may be prescribed for other uses; ask your doctor or pharmacist for more information. What special precautions should I follow? Before taking olmesartan, tell your doctor and pharmacist if you are allergic to olmesartan, any other medications, or any of the ingredients in olmesartan tablets. Ask your pharmacist for a list of the ingredients. tell your doctor if you have diabetes (high blood sugar) and are taking aliskiren (Tekturna, in Amturnide, Tekamlo, Tekturna HCT, Valturna). Your doctor will probably tell you not to take olmesartan if you have diabetes and are also taking aliskiren. tell your doctor and pharmacist what other prescription and nonprescription medications, vitamins, nutritional supplements, and herbal products you are taking or plan to take. Be sure to mention any of the following: an angiotensin-converting enzyme (ACE) inhibitor such as benazepril (Lotensin, in Lotrel), captopril (Capoten, in Capozide), enalapril (Vasotec), fosinopril, lisinopril (in Prinzide), moexipril (Univasc), perindopril (Aceon), quinapril (Accupril, in Accuretic, in Quinaretic), ramipril (Altace), trandolapril (Mavik, in Tarka); colesevelam (Welchol); diuretics ('water pills'); gemfibrozil (Lopid); aspirin and other nonsteroidal anti-inflammatory drugs (NSAIDs) such as ibuprofen (Advil, Motrin) and naproxen (Aleve, Naprosyn); and potassium supplements. Your doctor may need to change the doses of your medication or monitor you carefully for side effects. tell your doctor if you have or have ever had heart failure, or kidney or liver disease. tell your doctor if you are breast-feeding. you should know that olmesartan may cause dizziness, lightheadedness, and fainting when you get up too quickly from a lying position. This is more common when you first start taking olmesartan. To help avoid this problem, get out of bed slowly, resting your feet on the floor for a few minutes before standing up. you should know that diarrhea, vomiting, not drinking enough fluids, and sweating a lot can cause a drop in blood pressure, which may cause lightheadedness and fainting. Tell your doctor if you have any of these problems or develop them during your treatment. What special dietary instructions should I follow? Do not use salt substitutes containing potassium without talking to your doctor. If your doctor prescribes a low-salt or low-sodium diet, follow these directions carefully. What should I do if I forget a dose? Take the missed dose as soon as you remember it. However, if it is almost time for the next dose, skip the missed dose and continue your regular dosing schedule. Do not take a double dose to make up for a missed one. What side effects can this medication cause? Olmesartan may cause side effects. Some side effects can be serious. If you experience any of these symptoms or those listed in the SPECIAL PRECAUTIONS section, call your doctor immediately: swelling of the face, throat, tongue, lips, eyes, hands, feet, ankles, or lower legs severe diarrhea weight loss difficulty breathing or swallowing hoarseness Olmesartan may cause other side effects. Call your doctor if you have any unusual problems while taking this medication. If you experience a serious side effect, you or your doctor may send a report to the Food and Drug Administration's (FDA) MedWatch Adverse Event Reporting program online ( http://www.fda.gov/Safety/MedWatch ) or by phone (1-800-332-1088). What should I know about storage and disposal of this medication? Keep this medication in the container it came in, tightly closed, and out of reach of children. Store it at room temperature and away from excess heat and moisture (not in the bathroom). Unneeded medications should be disposed of in special ways to ensure that pets, children, and other people cannot consume them. However, you should not flush this medication down the toilet. Instead, the best way to dispose of your medication is through a medicine take-back program. Talk to your pharmacist or contact your local garbage/recycling department to learn about take-back programs in your community. See the FDA's Safe Disposal of Medicines website ( http://goo.gl/c4Rm4p ) for more information if you do not have access to a take-back program. It is important to keep all medication out of sight and reach of children as many containers (such as weekly pill minders and those for eye drops, creams, patches, and inhalers) are not child-resistant and young children can open them easily. To protect young children from poisoning, always lock safety caps and immediately place the medication in a safe location – one that is up and away and out of their sight and reach. http://www.upandaway.org In case of emergency/overdose In case of overdose, call the poison control helpline at 1-800-222-1222. Information is also available online at https://www.poisonhelp.org/help . If the victim has collapsed, had a seizure, has trouble breathing, or can't be awakened, immediately call emergency services at 911. Symptoms of overdose may include: fainting dizziness fast or slow heartbeat What other information should I know? Keep all appointments with your doctor and the laboratory. Your blood pressure should be checked regularly to determine your response to olmesartan. Do not let anyone else take your medication. Ask your pharmacist any questions you have about refilling your prescription. It is important for you to keep a written list of all of the prescription and nonprescription (over-the-counter) medicines you are taking, as well as any products such as vitamins, minerals, or other dietary supplements. You should bring this list with you each time you visit a doctor or if you are admitted to a hospital. It is also important information to carry with you in case of emergencies. Brand names Benicar ®

[ Amlodipine pronounced as (am loe' di peen)  Amlodipine is used alone or in combination with other medications to treat high blood pressure in adults and children 6 years and older. It is also used to treat certain types of angina (chest pain) and coronary artery disease (narrowing of the blood vessels that supply blood to the heart). Amlodipine is in a class of medications called calcium channel blockers. It lowers blood pressure by relaxing the blood vessels so the heart does not have to pump as hard. It controls chest pain by increasing the supply of blood to the heart. If taken regularly, amlodipine controls chest pain, but it does not stop chest pain once it starts. Your doctor may prescribe a different medication to take when you have chest pain. High blood pressure is a common condition and when not treated, can cause damage to the brain, heart, blood vessels, kidneys and other parts of the body. Damage to these organs may cause heart disease, a heart attack, heart failure, stroke, kidney failure, loss of vision, and other problems. In addition to taking medication, making lifestyle changes will also help to control your blood pressure. These changes include eating a diet that is low in fat and salt, maintaining a healthy weight, exercising at least 30 minutes most days, not smoking, and using alcohol in moderation. How should this medicine be used? Amlodipine comes as a tablet and an suspension (liquid) to take by mouth. It is usually taken once a day. To help you remember to take amlodipine, take it around the same time every day. Follow the directions on your prescription label carefully, and ask your doctor or pharmacist to explain any part you do not understand. Take amlodipine exactly as directed. Do not take more or less of it or take it more often than prescribed by your doctor. Shake the suspension well before each use to mix the medication evenly. Your doctor will probably start you on a low dose of amlodipine and gradually increase your dose. Amlodipine helps to control high blood pressure, angina, and coronary artery disease, but does not cure these conditions. Continue to take amlodipine even if you feel well. Do not stop taking amlodipine without talking to your doctor. Other uses for this medicine This medication may be prescribed for other uses; ask your doctor or pharmacist for more information. What special precautions should I follow? Before taking amlodipine, tell your doctor and pharmacist if you are allergic to amlodipine, any other medications, or any ingredients in amlodipine tablets or suspension. Ask your pharmacist for a list of the ingredients. tell your doctor and pharmacist what prescription and nonprescription medications, vitamins, nutritional supplements, and herbal products you are taking or plan to take. Be sure to mention any of the following: certain medications for seizures such as carbamazepine (Carbatrol, Equetro, Tegretol), phenytoin (Dilantin, Phenytek), and phenobarbital; clarithromycin (Biaxin, in Prevpac); cyclosporine (Gengraf, Neoral, Sandimmune); efavirenz (Sustiva); indinavir (Crixivan); itraconazole (Onmel, Sporanox); ketoconazole (Nizoral); lovastatin (Altoprev, in Advicor); nefazodone; nelfinavir (Viracept); nevirapine (Viramune); rifabutin (Mycobutin); rifampin (Rifadin, Rimactane, in Rifamate), ritonavir (Norvir, in Kaletra), simvastatin (Zocor, in Simcor, in Vytorin), and tacrolimus (Astragraf SL, Prograf). Your doctor may need to change the doses of your medications or monitor you carefully for side effects. tell your doctor if you have or have ever had heart failure or heart or liver disease. tell your doctor if you are pregnant, plan to become pregnant, or are breast-feeding. If you become pregnant while taking amlodipine, call your doctor. What special dietary instructions should I follow? If your doctor prescribes a low-salt or low-sodium diet, follow these directions carefully. What should I do if I forget a dose? Take the missed dose as soon as you remember it. However, if it is almost time for the next dose, skip the missed dose and continue your regular dosing schedule. Do not take a double dose to make up for a missed one. What side effects can this medication cause? Amlodipine may cause side effects. Tell your doctor if any of these symptoms are severe or do not go away: swelling of the hands, feet, ankles, or lower legs headache upset stomach nausea stomach pain dizziness or lightheadedness drowsiness excessive tiredness flushing Some side effects can be serious. If you experience any of these symptoms, call your doctor immediately or get emergency medical treatment: more frequent or more severe chest pain rapid, pounding, or irregular heartbeat fainting If you experience a serious side effect, you or your doctor may send a report to the Food and Drug Administration's (FDA) MedWatch Adverse Event Reporting program online ( http://www.fda.gov/Safety/MedWatch ) or by phone (1-800-332-1088). What should I know about storage and disposal of this medication? Keep this medication in the container it came in, tightly closed, and out of reach of children. Store the tablets at room temperature and away from excess heat and moisture (not in the bathroom). Store the suspension in the refrigerator and avoid freezing; protect it from light. It is important to keep all medication out of sight and reach of children as many containers (such as weekly pill minders and those for eye drops, creams, patches, and inhalers) are not child-resistant and young children can open them easily. To protect young children from poisoning, always lock safety caps and immediately place the medication in a safe location – one that is up and away and out of their sight and reach. http://www.upandaway.org Unneeded medications should be disposed of in special ways to ensure that pets, children, and other people cannot consume them. However, you should not flush this medication down the toilet. Instead, the best way to dispose of your medication is through a medicine take-back program. Talk to your pharmacist or contact your local garbage/recycling department to learn about take-back programs in your community. See the FDA's Safe Disposal of Medicines website ( http://goo.gl/c4Rm4p ) for more information if you do not have access to a take-back program. In case of emergency/overdose In case of overdose, call the poison control helpline at 1-800-222-1222. Information is also available online at https://www.poisonhelp.org/help . If the victim has collapsed, had a seizure, has trouble breathing, or can't be awakened, immediately call emergency services at 911. Symptoms of overdose may include: dizziness fainting rapid heartbeat What other information should I know? Keep all appointments with your doctor. Your blood pressure should be checked regularly to determine your response to amlodipine. Do not let anyone else take your medication. Ask your pharmacist any questions you have about refilling your prescription. It is important for you to keep a written list of all of the prescription and nonprescription (over-the-counter) medicines you are taking, as well as any products such as vitamins, minerals, or other dietary supplements. You should bring this list with you each time you visit a doctor or if you are admitted to a hospital. It is also important information to carry with you in case of emergencies. Brand names Amvaz ® ¶ Katerzia ® Norvasc ®













[ Estrogen and Progestin (Oral Contraceptives) pronounced as (ess' troe jen) (proe jes tin) To use the sharing features on this page, please enable JavaScript. Why is this medication prescribed? How should this medicine be used? Other uses for this medicine What special precautions should I follow? What special dietary instructions should I follow? What should I do if I forget a dose? What side effects can this medication cause? What should I know about storage and disposal of this medication? In case of emergency/overdose What other information should I know? Other names IMPORTANT WARNING: Cigarette smoking increases the risk of serious side effects from oral contraceptives, including heart attacks, blood clots, and strokes. This risk is higher for women over 35 years of age and heavy smokers (15 or more cigarettes per day). If you take oral contraceptives, you should not smoke. Why is this medication prescribed? Oral contraceptives (birth-control pills) are used to prevent pregnancy. Estrogen and progestin are two female sex hormones. Combinations of estrogen and progestin work by preventing ovulation (the release of eggs from the ovaries). They also change the lining of the uterus (womb) to prevent pregnancy from developing and change the mucus at the cervix (opening of the uterus) to prevent sperm (male reproductive cells) from entering. Oral contraceptives are a very effective method of birth control, but they do not prevent the spread of human immunodeficiency virus (HIV, the virus that causes acquired immunodeficiency syndrome [AIDS]) and other sexually transmitted diseases. Some brands of oral contraceptives are also used to treat acne in certain patients. Oral contraceptives treat acne by decreasing the amounts of certain natural substances that can cause acne. Some oral contraceptives (Beyaz, Yaz) are also used to relieve the symptoms of premenstrual dysphoric disorder (physical and emotional symptoms that occur before the menstrual period each month) in women who have chosen to use an oral contraceptive to prevent pregnancy. How should this medicine be used? Oral contraceptives come in packets of 21, 28, or 91 tablets to take by mouth once a day, every day or almost every day of a regular cycle. To avoid nausea, take oral contraceptives with food or milk. Take your oral contraceptive at the same time every day. Follow the directions on your prescription label carefully, and ask your doctor or pharmacist to explain any part you do not understand. Take your oral contraceptive exactly as directed. Do not take more or less of it, take it more often, or take it for a longer time than prescribed by your doctor. Oral contraceptives come in many different brands. Different brands of oral contraceptives contain slightly different medications or doses, are taken in slightly different ways, and have different risks and benefits. Be sure that you know which brand of oral contraceptives you are using and exactly how you should use it. Ask your doctor or pharmacist for a copy of the manufacturer's information for the patient and read it carefully. If you have a 21-tablet packet, take 1 tablet daily for 21 days and then none for 7 days. Then start a new packet. If you have a 28-tablet packet, take 1 tablet daily for 28 days in a row in the order specified in your packet. Start a new packet the day after you take your 28th tablet. The tablets in most 28-tablet packets may have different colors. Many 28-tablet packets have certain color tablets that contain different amounts of estrogen and progestin, but also may have other color tablets which contain an inactive ingredient or a folate supplement. If you have a 91-day tablet packet, take 1 tablet daily for 91 days. Your packet will contain three trays of tablets. Start with the first tablet on the first tray and continue taking 1 tablet every day in the order specified on the packet until you have taken all of the tablets on all of the trays. The last set of tablets are a different color. These tablets may contain an inactive ingredient, or they may contain a very low dose of estrogen. Start your new packet the day after you take your 91st tablet. Your doctor will tell you when you should start taking your oral contraceptive. Oral contraceptives are usually started on the first or fifth day of your menstrual period or on the first Sunday after or on which bleeding begins. Your doctor will also tell you whether you need to use another method of birth control during the first 7 to 9 days that you take your oral contraceptive and will help you choose a method. Follow these directions carefully. You will probably experience withdrawal bleeding similar to a menstrual period while you are taking the inactive tablets or the low dose estrogen tablets or during the week that you do not take your oral contraceptive. If you are taking the type of packet that only contains active tablets, you will not experience any scheduled bleeding, but you may experience unexpected bleeding and spotting, especially at the beginning of your treatment. Be sure to start taking your new packet on schedule even if you are still bleeding. You may need to use a backup method of birth control if you vomit or have diarrhea while you are taking an oral contraceptive. Talk to your doctor about this before you begin to take your oral contraceptive so that you can prepare a backup method of birth control in case it is needed. If you vomit or have diarrhea while you are taking an oral contraceptive, call your doctor to find out how long you should use the backup method. If you have recently given birth, wait until 4 weeks after delivery to begin taking oral contraceptives. If you have had an abortion or miscarriage, talk to your doctor about when you should begin taking oral contraceptives. Oral contraceptives will work only as long as they are taken regularly. Continue to take oral contraceptives every day even if you are spotting or bleeding, have an upset stomach, or do not think that you are likely to become pregnant. Do not stop taking oral contraceptives without talking to your doctor. Other uses for this medicine Oral contraceptives are also sometimes used to treat heavy or irregular menstruation and endometriosis (a condition in which the type of tissue that lines the uterus [womb] grows in other areas of the body and causes pain, heavy or irregular menstruation [periods], and other symptoms). Talk to your doctor about the risks of using this medication for your condition. This medication may be prescribed for other uses; ask your doctor or pharmacist for more information. What special precautions should I follow? Before taking oral contraceptives, tell your doctor and pharmacist if you are allergic to estrogen, progestin, or any other medications. tell your doctor and pharmacist what prescription and nonprescription medications, vitamins, and nutritional supplements you are taking. Be sure to mention any of the following: acetaminophen (APAP, Tylenol); antibiotics such as ampicillin (Principen), clarithromycin (Biaxin),erythromycin (E.E.S., E-Mycin, Erythrocin), isoniazid (INH, Nydrazid), metronidazole (Flagyl),minocycline (Dynacin, Minocin), rifabutin (Mycobutin), rifampin (Rifadin, Rimactane), tetracycline (Sumycin), and troleandomycin (TAO) (not available in the U.S.); anticoagulants ('blood thinners') such as warfarin (Coumadin); antifungals such as griseofulvin (Fulvicin, Grifulvin, Grisactin), fluconazole (Diflucan), itraconazole (Sporanox), and ketoconazole (Nizoral); atorvastatin (Lipitor); clofibrate (Atromid-S); cyclosporine (Neoral, Sandimmune); bosentan (Tracleer); cimetidine (Tagamet); danazol (Danocrine); delavirdine (Rescriptor); diltiazem (Cardizem, Dilacor, Tiazac); fluoxetine (Prozac, Sarafem, in Symbyax); HIV protease inhibitors such as indinavir (Crixivan) and ritonavir (Norvir); medications for seizures such as carbamazepine (Tegretol), felbamate (Felbatol), lamotrigine (Lamictal), oxcarbazepine (Trileptal), phenobarbital (Luminal, Solfoton), phenytoin (Dilantin), primidone (Mysoline), and topiramate (Topamax); modafinil (Provigil); morphine (Kadian, MS Contin, MSIR, others); nefazodone; rifampin (Rimactane, in Rifadin, in Rifater); oral steroids such as dexamethasone (Decadron, Dexone), methylprednisolone (Medrol), prednisone (Deltasone), and prednisolone (Prelone); temazepam (Restoril); theophylline (Theobid, Theo-Dur); thyroid medication such as levothyroxine (Levothroid, Levoxyl, Synthroid); verapamil (Calan, Covera, Isoptin, Verelan); vitamin C; and zafirlukast (Accolate). Your doctor may need to change the doses of your medications or monitor you carefully for side effects. if you are taking oral contraceptives that contain drosperinone (Beyaz, Gianvi, Loryna, Ocella, Safyral, Syeda, Yasmin, Yaz, and Zarah) tell your doctor and pharmacist if you are taking any of the medications listed above or any of the following: angiotensin-converting enzyme (ACE) inhibitors such as benazepril (Lotensin), enalapril (Vasotec), and lisinopril (Prinivil, Zestril); angiotensin II antagonists such as irbesartan (Avapro), losartan (Cozaar), and valsartan (Diovan); aspirin and other nonsteroidal anti-inflammatory drugs (NSAIDs) such as ibuprofen (Advil, Motrin) and naproxen (Aleve, Naprosyn); diuretics ('water pills') such as amiloride (Midamor), spironolactone (Aldactone), and triamterene (Dyrenium); eplerenone (Inspra); heparin; or potassium supplements. Before taking Beyaz or Safyral, also tell your doctor or pharmacist if you are taking cholestyramine (Locholest, Prevalite, Questran), a folate supplement, methotrexate (Trexall), pyrimethamine (Daraprim), sulfasalazine (Azulfidine), or valproic acid (Depakene, Stavzor). tell your doctor what herbal products you are taking, especially St. John's wort. tell your doctor if you have or have ever had blood clots in your legs, lungs, or eyes; thrombophilia (condition in which the blood clots easily); coronary artery disease (clogged blood vessels leading to the heart); cerebrovascular disease (clogging or weakening of the blood vessels within the brain or leading to the brain); stroke or mini-stroke; an irregular heartbeat; heart disease; a heart attack; chest pain; diabetes that has affected your circulation; headaches that come along with other symptoms such as vision changes, weakness, and dizziness; high blood pressure; breast cancer; cancer of the lining of the uterus, cervix, or vagina; liver cancer, liver tumors, or other types of liver disease; yellowing of the skin or eyes during pregnancy or while you were using hormonal contraceptives (birth control pills, patches, rings, implants, or injections); unexplained abnormal vaginal bleeding; adrenal insufficiency (condition in which the body does not produce enough of certain natural substances needed for important functions such as blood pressure); or kidney disease. Also tell your doctor if you have recently had surgery or have been unable to move around for any reason. Your doctor may tell you that you should not take certain types of oral contraceptives or that you should not take any type of oral contraceptive if you have or have had any of these conditions. Also tell your doctor if anyone in your family has had breast cancer, if you are overweight, and if you have or have ever had problems with your breasts such as lumps, an abnormal mammogram (breast x-ray), or fibrocystic breast disease (swollen, tender breasts and/or breast lumps that are not cancer); high blood cholesterol or fats; diabetes; asthma; toxemia (high blood pressure during pregnancy); heart attack; chest pain; seizures; migraine headaches; depression; gallbladder disease; jaundice (yellowing of the skin or eyes); and excessive weight gain and fluid retention (bloating) during the menstrual cycle. do not take oral contraceptives if you are pregnant, plan to become pregnant, or are breast-feeding. If you become pregnant while taking oral contraceptives, call your doctor immediately. if you miss periods while you are taking oral contraceptives, you may be pregnant. If you are using a 91-tablet packet and you miss one period, call your doctor. If you are using another type of packet according to the directions and you miss one period, you may continue to take your tablets. However, if you have not taken your tablets as directed and you miss one period or if you have taken your tablets as directed and you miss two periods, call your doctor and use another method of birth control until you have a pregnancy test. If you are using a 28-tablet packet that contains only active tablets, you will not expect to have periods on a regular basis, so it may be hard to tell if you are pregnant. If you are using this type of oral contraceptive, call your doctor and have a pregnancy test if you experience symptoms of pregnancy such as nausea, vomiting, and breast tenderness, or if you suspect you may be pregnant. if you are having surgery, including dental surgery, tell the doctor or dentist that you are taking oral contraceptives. you should know that oral contraceptives may cause a spotty darkening of the skin, especially on the face. If you have experienced changes in your skin color during pregnancy or while you were taking oral contraceptives in the past, you should avoid exposure to real or artificial sunlight while you are taking oral contraceptives. Wear protective clothing, sunglasses, and sunscreen. tell your doctor and pharmacist if you wear contact lenses. If you notice changes in vision or ability to wear your lenses while taking oral contraceptives, see an eye doctor. What special dietary instructions should I follow? Unless your doctor tells you otherwise, continue your normal diet. What should I do if I forget a dose? If you miss doses of your oral contraceptive, you may not be protected from pregnancy. You may need to use a backup method of birth control for 7 to 9 days or until the end of the cycle. Every brand of oral contraceptives comes with specific directions to follow if you miss one or more doses. Carefully read the directions in the manufacturer's information for the patient that came with your oral contraceptive. If you have any questions, call your doctor or pharmacist. Continue to take your tablets as scheduled and use a backup method of birth control until your questions are answered. What side effects can this medication cause? Oral contraceptives may cause side effects. Tell your doctor if any of these symptoms are severe or do not go away: nausea vomiting stomach cramps or bloating diarrhea constipation gingivitis (swelling of the gum tissue) increased or decreased appetite weight gain or weight loss brown or black skin patches acne hair growth in unusual places bleeding or spotting between menstrual periods changes in menstrual flow painful or missed periods breast tenderness, enlargement, or discharge swelling, redness, irritation, burning, or itching of the vagina white vaginal discharge Some side effects can be serious. The following symptoms are uncommon, but if you experience any of them, call your doctor immediately: severe headache severe vomiting speech problems dizziness or faintness weakness or numbness of an arm or leg crushing chest pain or chest heaviness coughing up blood shortness of breath leg pain partial or complete loss of vision double vision bulging eyes severe stomach pain yellowing of the skin or eyes loss of appetite extreme tiredness, weakness, or lack of energy fever dark-colored urine light-colored stool swelling of the hands, feet, ankles, or lower legs depression, especially if you also have trouble sleeping, tiredness, loss of energy, or other mood changes unusual bleeding rash menstrual bleeding that is unusually heavy or that lasts for longer than 7 days in a row Oral contraceptives may increase the chance that you will develop liver tumors. These tumors are not a form of cancer, but they can break and cause serious bleeding inside the body. Oral contraceptives may also increase the chance that you will develop breast or liver cancer, or have a heart attack, a stroke, or a serious blood clot. Talk to your doctor about the risks of using oral contraceptives. Some studies show that women who take oral contraceptives that contain drosperinone (Beyaz, Gianvi, Loryna, Ocella, Safyral, Syeda, Yasmin, Yaz, and Zarah) may be more likely to develop deep vein thrombosis (a serious or life-threatening condition in which blood clots that form in the veins, usually in the legs and may move through the body to the lungs) than women who take oral contraceptives that do not contain drosperinone. However, other studies do not show this increased risk. Before you begin taking oral contraceptives, talk to your doctor about the risk that you will develop blood clots and about which oral contraceptive or other method of birth control may be the best choice for you. Oral contraceptives may cause other side effects. Call your doctor if you have any unusual problems while taking this medication. If you experience a serious side effect, you or your doctor may send a report to the Food and Drug Administration's (FDA) MedWatch Adverse Event Reporting program online ( http://www.fda.gov/Safety/MedWatch ) or by phone (1-800-332-1088). What should I know about storage and disposal of this medication? Keep this medication in the packet it came in, tightly closed, and out of reach of children. Store it at room temperature and away from excess heat and moisture (not in the bathroom). Unneeded medications should be disposed of in special ways to ensure that pets, children, and other people cannot consume them. However, you should not flush this medication down the toilet. Instead, the best way to dispose of your medication is through a medicine take-back program. Talk to your pharmacist or contact your local garbage/recycling department to learn about take-back programs in your community. See the FDA's Safe Disposal of Medicines website ( http://goo.gl/c4Rm4p ) for more information if you do not have access to a take-back program. It is important to keep all medication out of sight and reach of children as many containers (such as weekly pill minders and those for eye drops, creams, patches, and inhalers) are not child-resistant and young children can open them easily. To protect young children from poisoning, always lock safety caps and immediately place the medication in a safe location – one that is up and away and out of their sight and reach. http://www.upandaway.org In case of emergency/overdose In case of overdose, call the poison control helpline at 1-800-222-1222. Information is also available online at https://www.poisonhelp.org/help . If the victim has collapsed, had a seizure, has trouble breathing, or can't be awakened, immediately call emergency services at 911. Symptoms of overdose may include: nausea vaginal bleeding What other information should I know? Keep all appointments with your doctor and the laboratory. You should have a complete physical examination every year, including blood pressure measurements, breast and pelvic exams, and a Pap test. Follow your doctor's directions for examining your breasts; report any lumps immediately. Before you have any laboratory tests, tell the laboratory personnel that you take oral contraceptives. If you wish to stop taking oral contraceptives and become pregnant, your doctor may tell you to use another method of birth control until you begin to menstruate regularly again. It may take a long time for you to become pregnant after you stop taking oral contraceptives, especially if you have never had a baby or if you had irregular, infrequent, or complete absence of menstrual periods before taking oral contraceptives. However, it is possible to become pregnant within days of stopping certain oral contraceptives. If you want to stop taking oral contraceptives but do not want to become pregnant, you should begin using another type of birth control as soon as you stop taking oral contraceptives. Discuss any questions that you may have with your doctor. Oral contraceptives may decrease the amount of folate in your body. Folate is important for the development of a healthy baby, so you should talk to your doctor if you want to become pregnant soon after you stop taking oral contraceptives. Your doctor may recommend that you take a folate supplement or an oral contraceptive that contains a folate supplement (Beyaz, Safyral). Do not let anyone else take your medication. Ask your pharmacist any questions you have about refilling your prescription. It is important for you to keep a written list of all of the prescription and nonprescription (over-the-counter) medicines you are taking, as well as any products such as vitamins, minerals, or other dietary supplements. You should bring this list with you each time you visit a doctor or if you are admitted to a hospital. It is also important information to carry with you in case of emergencies.

